individual installers offer. Be sure to ask to see the technical specifications for the solar panels they are 
offering. You can find out more about understanding how to read technical specifications here. 
 
3. How much electricity will solar panels generate? 
The amount of electricity generated annually will depend on a range of factors including the hardware 
chosen, the size of the system, the geographical location, and the direction in which the panels are installed. 
With the most common silicon solar panels typically 1 sq. m of panels will generate ~150W of power on a 
clear sunny day (that’s enough to power a laptop computer). A home solar PV system sized at 20 sq. m 
(~3kW) would generate around 2,600kWh of electricity a year if well-located, over 40% of the typical annual 
electricity demand of an Irish home. 
4.  Do solar panels work in Ireland? 
Yes, solar PV systems will still generate electricity when there is daylight, so they will still function on overcast 
days in Ireland. In these conditions they will not be able to produce power at their maximum rated capacity 
(the figure in kilowatts (kW)), rather at some fraction of this figure. Solar panels will perform at their best in 
direct sunlight and therefore solar PV systems in Ireland will typically produce less than other, sunnier 
countries such as Spain. As mentioned above, a home solar PV system sized at 20 sq. (~3kW) would generate 
around 2,600kWh of electricity a year if well-located, over 40% of the typical annual electricity demand of an 
Irish home. 
5. How much do solar panels cost? 
The cost of purchasing and installing solar panels has come down considerably over the last 10 years. The 
cost of a solar PV system depends on a range of factors including the hardware chosen, the size of the 
system, accessibility of the roof or site, and the installer used. Broadly speaking home PV systems should 
range from around €1,500 - €2,000 per kW installed (ex-VAT), but prices will vary depending on the factors 
mentioned above. 
6. Where are solar panels manufactured? 
Most solar panels are manufactured in Asia (primarily in China and Taiwan) but there are also some European 
and North American manufacturers. The components for solar panels and other hardware used in the 
installation come from all around the world. 
7. Are solar panels right for my home? 
There are a variety of considerations when determining whether solar panels are right for your home. Some 
thought must go into how much of the generated electricity you will use as this will affect how economical it 
is as a solution for your home. Solar PV systems generate electricity only during daylight hours, 
predominantly around the middle of the day when you may be at work. 
Also, around 75% of the annual energy from a solar PV system is produced from May to September. You 
need to consider how much of the generated electricity you will use in your home, based on the pattern of 
generation from the solar PV system, and the pattern of energy usage and occupancy for your house. 
Without any additional systems, a lot of the generated electricity can be spilled (exported) to the grid, and 
there is currently no mechanism for homeowners to claim payment for this (see question 2.9). 
You also need to consider if your roof is suitable for solar PV considering the age and condition, the 
orientation of your house, and any potential shading from nearby trees or buildings. The best rooftops for 
maximizing electricity generation are those that are south-facing, in good condition, and with minimal 
shading from trees or adjacent structures. 
