Another simple measure is to install a ‘diverter switch’ which diverts any unused electricity to heat your hot 
water in your immersion tank. In this way, some of the energy generated is stored as hot water, which you 
can use later. 
Finally, a more complicated option is to install a PV system that does not face south but faces west or east. 
This will provide more energy in the morning or the evening when you have a greater demand to use it. 
However, an east- or west-facing PV system will generate less energy over the year than a south-facing 
system. 
13. What about a battery storage system? 
This is a more complex way of storing any potential exported electric energy. Adding a battery to your solar 
PV system means the battery will charge when the PV system is generating electricity that isn't being used, 
and then discharge when you need it next (normally that evening/night). A battery can increase the 
percentage of solar PV electricity you use in your house. However, adding a battery to the system will 
increase the cost of the PV system, and some energy is lost in the battery during the charge and discharge 
cycle. A battery can potentially allow you to ‘grid shift’ where you store power in batteries at a cheaper night 
rate for example and consume that energy later in the day.   
14. What supports are there for solar PV in homes? 
There are SEAI grant supports for domestic solar PV installations. Grant support is available for PV systems up 
to 4kWp, but this does not limit the size of your installation to 4kWp.   
 
15. Is there a ‘feed-in tariff’ payment for excess solar electricity fed into the grid by owners of solar 
PV systems? 
Yes, this is the Clean Export Guarantee (CEG) introduced as part of the Microgeneration Support Scheme 
(MSS) in 2022. This essentially means that homeowners get paid for the excess energy generated from the PV 
system that is not used in the home and is therefore exported back into the grid. To avail of this your installer 
will need to submit an NC6 to ESB networks and you will need to have a smart meter installed. For more 
information on the CEG, you will need to refer to your electricity provider.  
16. Does my rooftop PV system require maintenance? 
PV systems are low maintenance, but not zero maintenance. The most important aspect is to monitor the 
performance of your system regularly. This could simply be a routine check of your inverter to see that the 
system is operational (e.g., no red blinking lights) and that the energy meter is increasing each day. 
You should get an idea from your installer about how much the PV system should generate each year and 
see that your system is generating close to that amount. Some suppliers will provide you with access to this 
information via your smartphone. The most common point of failure is the inverter, which may need to be 
replaced at some point in the PV system’s lifetime. 
The solar panels themselves are extremely robust, but consideration should be given to cleaning them every 
few years to maintain their performance. If you live near the sea or a main road more regular cleaning may 
be necessary. 
17. What is the difference between domestic and non-domestic solar PV schemes?  
 
The domestic solar PV scheme is only open to homes that have a domestic MPRN.   If you have a non-
domestic MPRN (your electricity bill for this) you will have to apply for the non-domestic solar PV scheme.  
This is typically for farms and commercial buildings.  There are different criteria and grant values for the non-
domestic scheme, please refer to the SEAI website for further information.  
