What is Solar Photovoltaics (Solar PV)?  
 
The term ‘solar panel’ is often used interchangeably to describe the panels that generate electricity and those 
that generate hot water. 
• 
Solar panels that produce electricity are known as solar photovoltaic (PV) modules. These panels 
generate electricity when exposed to light. Solar PV is the rooftop solar you see in homes and 
businesses.  Solar electric panels capture the light from the sun and convert it into the electricity that is 
used in your home to power your TV, kettle, toaster, phone charger, radio, oven, and so on. 
• 
Solar panels that produce hot water are known as solar thermal collectors or solar hot water collectors. 
 
SEAI provides grant support for both Solar PV and Solar Hot Water Collectors. This guide focuses on Solar PV 
for renewable self-consumers.  
How can you benefit from investing in Solar PV?  
 
• 
Reduce your electricity bills by generating your renewable electricity.  
• 
Increase the efficiency and add to the value of your home  
• 
Reduce your reliance on electricity generated from fossil fuels  
• 
Support the environment by reducing your greenhouse gas emissions.  
 
Solar PV is a reliable and sustainable source of renewable energy that can help reduce your reliance on grid 
electricity and the related cost volatility. Once installed, solar PV will provide electricity quietly, cleanly, and 
affordably for 25 or more years with minimal maintenance requirements.     
Installation of domestic solar PV system 
 
A domestic solar PV system consists of several solar panels mounted generally to your roof and connected to 
the electrical loads within your building. The solar panels generate DC (direct current – like a battery) 
electricity, which is then converted in an inverter to AC (alternating current – like the electricity in your 
domestic socket). Solar PV systems are rated in kilowatt peak (kWp). A 1kWp solar PV system would require 3 
solar panels on your roof. 
Any excess electricity produced can be stored in a battery, or other storage solution like your hot water 
immersion tank or Electric Vehicle. It can also be exported from your house into the electrical network on 
your street. 
Generating electricity from solar PV 
 
Solar PV systems generate electricity during daylight hours only, predominately around the middle of the 
day. In Ireland, around 75% is produced from May to September. If this electricity is not used in the home, it 
is exported to the grid. 
It is desirable to maximize the amount of solar electricity you use in your home. You can do this by sizing the 
solar PV system to meet your demand. 
