Frequently Asked Questions on Solar Photovoltaics 
If you have any comments on these FAQs, please contact info@seai.ie 
 
1. What are solar panels? 
2. What different types of solar PV panels exist? 
3. How much electricity will solar panels generate? 
4. Do solar panels work in Ireland? 
5. How much do solar panels cost? 
6. Where are solar panels manufactured? 
7. Are solar panels right for my home? 
8. Who can install solar panels on my property? 
9. Do I need planning permission to install solar PV on my roof? 
10. What will be installed in my home if I purchase a rooftop solar PV system? 
11. How will the solar panels be fixed to my roof? 
12. How can I maximize the amount of electricity generated that I use? 
13. What about a battery storage system? 
14. What supports are there for solar PV in homes? 
15. Is there a ‘feed-in tariff’ payment for excess solar electricity fed into the grid by owners of solar PV 
systems? 
16. Does my rooftop PV system require maintenance? 
17. What is the difference between domestic and non-domestic solar PV schemes? 
 
1. What are solar panels? 
The term ‘solar panel’ can refer to a wide range of solar technologies. It is often used interchangeably 
between the panels that generate electricity and those that generate heat. Solar panels which produce 
electricity are referred to in the industry as ‘solar photovoltaic (PV) modules.’ These are panels made from 
materials that generate DC electricity when exposed to light. 
When considering purchasing solar panels it is important to consider whether you would like a system that 
generates electricity (solar PV panels) or a system that heats water (solar thermal panels). The questions in 
this document are all about the electricity-generating panels. 
 
2. What different types of solar PV panels exist? 
There are a variety of different solar PV technologies and products. The performance and cost of different 
products vary greatly. The most common solar PV technologies are: 
❖ Mono-crystalline silicon panels: Typically, the most efficient commercial solar panels at converting 
light into electricity. 
❖ Multi-crystalline silicon panels: typically, slightly less efficient than mono-crystalline panels but often 
less expensive 
❖ Thin film panels: this encompasses a range of technologies (including those made from cadmium 
telluride (CdTe), copper indium gallium Di selenide (CIGS), and amorphous silicon (a-Si)). These 
technologies are not as widely deployed but are often favoured because of their appealing 
appearance. 
Silicon-based solar panels are by far the most deployed, accounting for over 90% of the global market. When 
considering installing solar PV panels on your roof you will typically be limited to the products which 
