Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output
sequences. Aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden
states ht, as a function of the previous hidden state ht−1 and the input for position t. This inherently
sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer
sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples. Recent work has achieved
signiﬁcant improvements in computational efﬁciency through factorization tricks [18] and conditional
computation [26], while also improving model performance in case of the latter. The fundamental
constraint of sequential computation, however, remains.
Attention mechanisms have become an integral part of compelling sequence modeling and transduc-
tion models in various tasks, allowing modeling of dependencies without regard to their distance in
the input or output sequences [2, 16]. In all but a few cases [22], however, such attention mechanisms
are used in conjunction with a recurrent network.
In this work we propose the Transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead
relying entirely on an attention mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output.
The Transformer allows for signiﬁcantly more parallelization and can reach a new state of the art in
translation quality after being trained for as little as twelve hours on eight P100 GPUs.
2
Background
The goal of reducing sequential computation also forms the foundation of the Extended Neural GPU
[20], ByteNet [15] and ConvS2S [8], all of which use convolutional neural networks as basic building
block, computing hidden representations in parallel for all input and output positions. In these models,
the number of operations required to relate signals from two arbitrary input or output positions grows
in the distance between positions, linearly for ConvS2S and logarithmically for ByteNet. This makes
it more difﬁcult to learn dependencies between distant positions [11]. In the Transformer this is
reduced to a constant number of operations, albeit at the cost of reduced effective resolution due
to averaging attention-weighted positions, an effect we counteract with Multi-Head Attention as
described in section 3.2.
Self-attention, sometimes called intra-attention is an attention mechanism relating different positions
of a single sequence in order to compute a representation of the sequence. Self-attention has been
used successfully in a variety of tasks including reading comprehension, abstractive summarization,
textual entailment and learning task-independent sentence representations [4, 22, 23, 19].
End-to-end memory networks are based on a recurrent attention mechanism instead of sequence-
aligned recurrence and have been shown to perform well on simple-language question answering and
language modeling tasks [28].
To the best of our knowledge, however, the Transformer is the ﬁrst transduction model relying
entirely on self-attention to compute representations of its input and output without using sequence-
aligned RNNs or convolution. In the following sections, we will describe the Transformer, motivate
self-attention and discuss its advantages over models such as [14, 15] and [8].
3
Model Architecture
Most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder-decoder structure [5, 2, 29].
Here, the encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations (x1, ..., xn) to a sequence
of continuous representations z = (z1, ..., zn). Given z, the decoder then generates an output
sequence (y1, ..., ym) of symbols one element at a time. At each step the model is auto-regressive
[9], consuming the previously generated symbols as additional input when generating the next.
The Transformer follows this overall architecture using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully
connected layers for both the encoder and decoder, shown in the left and right halves of Figure 1,
respectively.
3.1
Encoder and Decoder Stacks
Encoder:
The encoder is composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. Each layer has two
sub-layers. The ﬁrst is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, position-
2
