www.canadiansolar.com
| 7
·	 Ensure that other system components do not 
damage the module mechanically or electrically.
·	 Modules can be wired in series to increase voltage 
or in parallel to increase current. To connect modules
in series, connect the cables from the positive 
terminal of one module to the negative terminal 
of the next module. To connect in parallel, 
connect the cables from the positive terminal of 
one module to the positive terminal on the next 
module.  
·	 The quantity of bypass diodes in the module's 
junction box may vary depending on the model 
series.   
·	 Only connect the quantity of modules that corres-
ponds to the voltage specifications of the inverters 
used in the system. In addition modules should not 
be connected together to create a voltage higher 
than the maximum permitted system voltage 
stated on the module nameplate, even under the 
worst local temperature conditions (see Table 1 
for the correction coefficients that apply to open-
circuit voltage).  
·	 A maximum of two strings can be connected in
parallel without the need to incorporate an over-
current protection device (fuses, etc.) in series 
within each string. Three or more strings can be 
connected in parallel if an appropriate, certified 
over-current protection device is installed in series 
within each string. And it shall be ensured in the 
PV system design that the reverse current of any 
particular string is lower than the module maxi­
mum fuse rating at any circumstance.
·	 For  high power density modules such as CS1 series 
intended to be used on rooftop applications, in agree­
ment with IEC 62548: 2016 Photovoltaic (PV) arrays 
design requirements, blocking diodes should be used 
in each PV array module string as exclusive mean of 
protection against reverse currents where three or 
more strings are connected in parallel. Where permit­
ted by your local electrical code, blocking diodes can 
also be used for overcurrent protection, in place of 
fuses or other OCPD devices. 
·	 Only modules with similar electrical outputs 
should be connected in the same string to avoid or 
minimize mismatch effects in arrays.     
·	 To minimize risk in the event of an indirect 
lightning strike, avoid forming loops with the 
wiring when designing the system.  
·	 The recommended maximum series fuse rating is 
stated in a table in the Annex C.  
·	 Modules should be safely fixed to bear all expected 
loads, including wind and snow loads. 
 ·	A minimum clearance of 6.5 mm (0.25 in) between 
modules is required to allow for thermal expansion 
of the frames. 
·	 The small drainage holes on the underside of the 
module must not be blocked.
OPTIMUM ORIENTATION AND TILT  
·	 To maximize your annual yield, find out the 
optimum orientation and tilt for PV modules 
in your region. The highest yields are achieved 
when sunlight shines perpendicularly onto the PV 
modules. 
AVOID SHADING 
·	 Even minor partial shading (e.g. from dirt deposits) 
reduces yields. A module can be considered to be 
unshaded if its entire surface is free from shading 
all year round. Sunlight should be able to reach the 
module even on the shortest day of the year.
·	 Constant shading conditions can affect module 
service lifetime, due to accelerated ageing of the 
encapsulation material and thermal stress on the 
bypass diodes. 
RELIABLE VENTILATION  
·	 Sufficient clearance (at least 10 cm (3.94 in)) 
   between the module frame and the mounting 
surface is required to allow cooling air to circulate 
around the back of the module. This also enables 
condensation or moisture to dissipate. 
·	 According to UL 1703, any other specific clearan­
ce required for maintaining a system fire rating 
should prevail. Detailed clearance requirements 
pertaining to system fire ratings must be provided 
