EN-Rev IM/GN-AM-EN/2.2 Copyright © July, 2020. Canadian Solar Inc.
6 | 
March 2013) or 14 (post March 2013) digits.
·	 A nameplate is also affixed to the rear of each mo-
dule. This nameplate specifies the model type, as 
well as the main electrical and safety characteristics 
of the module.
5.0  
MODULE INSTALLATION
PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES AND 
GENERAL SAFETY
·	 Prior to installing modules please obtain 
information about any requirements and 
necessary approvals for the site, installation and 
inspection from the relevant authorities.  
·	 Check applicable building codes to ensure that the 
construction or structure (roof, facade, support, 
etc.) can bear the module system load.   
·	 CS-series solar modules have been qualified for 
Application Class A (equivalent to Safety Class II 
requirements). Modules rated under this class 
should be used in systems operating at voltage 
above 50 V or power above 240 W, where general 
contact access is anticipated.
·	 Canadian Solar Inc. modules have been certified 
as Type 1 or Type 4 according to UL 1703 and 
Class C according to IEC 61730-2, please refer to 
the datasheet or the product nameplate for the 
detailed types.
·	 Consult your local authority for guidelines and 
requirements for building or structural fire safety.
   
UL 1703 SYSTEM FIRE RATING REQUIREMENTS
·	 A photovoltaic systems composed of UL 1703 
certified modules mounted on a UL 2703 
certified mounting system should be evaluated 
in combination with roof coverings in accordance 
with UL 1703 standard, with respect to meeting the 
same fire classification as the roof assembly. 
·	 Mounting systems with a System Fire Class Rating 
(Class A, B or C), tested in conjunction with fire 
rated “Type 1”  or “Type 4” rated modules, are 
considered acceptable for use with Canadian Solar 
Inc. modules, provides the mounting system does 
not violate any other requirements of this manual. 
·	 Any mounting system limitations on inclination or 
accessories required to maintain a specific System 
Fire Class Rating should be clearly specified in the 
installation instructions and UL 2703 certification 
of the mounting system supplier.
·	 When installing modules, ensure the supporting 
roof has a fire resistant roof covering rated for the 
application.
·	 The fire rating for this module is only valid 
when the product is installed as specified in the 
mechanical mounting instructions.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS  	
·	 The module is intended for use in general 
open-air climates, as defined in IEC 60721-2-1: 
Classification of environmental conditions Part-2-1: 
Environmental conditions appearing in nature - 
Temperature and humidity.
·	 Please consult the Canadian Solar Inc. technical 
support department for more information on the 
use of modules in special climates, , such as an 
altitude greater than 2000 m.
Do not install modules near open 
flames or flammable materials.   
Do not immerse modules in water or 
constantly expose modules to water 
(either fresh or salt) (i.e. from fountains, 
sea spray).   
·	 Exposing modules to salt (i.e. marine environments) 
or sulfur (i.e. sulfur sources, volcanoes) incurs the 
risk of module corrosion.  
·	 Do not expose modules and their connectors to any 
unauthorized chemical substances (e.g. oil, lubricant, 
pesticide, etc.), as modules may incur damages.
·	 Failure to comply with these instructions will void 
Canadian Solar Inc. limited warranty.
INSTALLATION  REQUIREMENTS  
·	 Ensure that the module meets the general technical 
system requirements.
