www.canadiansolar.com
| 5
Alternatively, a more accurate correction factor for 
the open-circuit voltage can be calculated using the 
following formula:
T is the lowest expected ambient temperature at the 
system installation site
αVoc (%/ºC) is the voltage temperature coefficient 
of the selected module (refer to corresponding 
datasheet)
Electrical calculations and design must be performed 
by competent engineer or consultant.
4.0  
UNPACKING AND STORAGE
PRECAUTIONS 
·	 Modules should be stored in a dry and ventilated 
environment to avoid direct sunlight and 
moisture. If modules are stored in an uncontrolled 
environment, the storage time should be less than 
3 months and extra precautions should be taken 
to prevent connectors from being exposed to 
moisture or sunlight, like using connector endcaps. 
·	 Unpack module pallets carefully, following the 
steps shown on the pallet. Unpack, transport and 
store the modules with care.
·	 Modules must always be unpacked and installed by 
two people. Always use both hands when handling 
modules.
·	 Do not stand, step, walk and / or jump  on 
modules under any circumstances. Localized heavy 
loads may cause severe micro-cracks at cell level, 
which in turn may compromise module reliability  
and void Canadian Solar Inc’s warranty.  
·	 Do not support the module by the backsheet when 
handling or installing the module.
·	 Do not carry modules on your head.
·	 Do not drop or place objects (such as tools) on the 
modules.  
·	 Do not lift modules by their wires or junction box, 
lift them by the frame. 
·	 Stacks of modules should contain no more than 12 
modules, and the frames should be aligned.
·	 Do not place excessive loads on the module or 
twist the module frame. 
·	 Do not use sharp instruments on the modules. 
Particular care should be taken to avoid module 
backsheets being damaged by sharp objects, as 
scratches may directly affect product safety.
·	 Do not leave modules unsupported or unsecured. 
·	 Do not change the wiring of bypass diodes.
·	 Keep all connectors clean and dry at all times.
·	 Do not expose the modules and its connectors to any 
unauthorized chemical substance (e.g. oil, lubricant, 
pesticide, etc.).
PRODUCT IDENTIFICATION
·	 Each module has three identical barcodes (one in 
the laminate under the front glass, the second on 
the rear side of the module and the third on the 
frame) that act as a unique identifier. Each module 
has a unique serial number containing 13 (pre 
CVOC = 1-αVoc  ˣ (25 - T)
