EN-Rev IM/GN-AM-EN/2.2 Copyright © July, 2020. Canadian Solar Inc.
16 | 
All the basic requirements of the main installation 	
manual should apply to the alternative mounting 	
methods, unless otherwise specified.
The loads described in this manual corresponds 
to test loads. For installations complying with IEC 
61215-2: 2016 and UL 1703, a safety factor of 1.5 
should be applied for calculating the equivalent 
maximum authorized design loads.
Project design loads depend on construction, appli­
cable standards, location and local climate. Deter­
mination of the design loads is the responsibility of 
the racking suppliers or professional engineers. For 
detailed information, please follow local structural 
code or contact your professional structural en­
gineer.
MOUNTING METHOD A CLAMPING
·	 The mounting method has been qualified by Cana­
dian Solar Inc. as well as certified by VDE and CSA.
·	 Top or bottom clamping methods will vary and 
are dependent on the mounting structures. Please 
follow the mounting guidelines recommended by 
the mounting system supplier.
·	 Each module must be securely fastened at a 
minimum of four points on two opposite sides. 
The clamps should be positioned symmetrically. 
The clamps should be positioned according to the 
authorized position ranges defined in table A. 
·	 Install and tighten the module clamps to the 
mounting rails using the torque stated by the 
mounting hardware manufacturer. M8 X 1.25 
(5/16”) bolt and nut are used for this clamping 
method. 
·	 Tightening torques should be within 17~23 Nm 
(12.5~17.0 ft-lbs) for M8 (5/16”) coarse thread bolts, 
depending on the bolt class. For the bolt grade, 
the technical guideline from the fastener suppliers 
should be followed. Different recommendations 
from specific clamping hardware suppliers should 
prevail. 
·	 The system designer and installer are responsible 
for load calculations and for proper design of sup­
port structure. 
·	 Canadian Solar Inc.’s warranty may be void in cases 
where improper clamps or unsuitable installation 
methods are found. When installing inter-modu­
les or end-type clamps, please take the following 
measures into account:
	 	     Do not bend the module frame.
        Do not touch or cast shadows on the front glass.
        Do not damage the surface of the frame (to the 
        exception of the clamps with bonding pins).
        Ensure the clamps overlap the module frame               
        by at least 5 mm (0.2 in)
        Overlap in length by at least
         a)  80 mm (3.15 in) when 2400 Pa < uplift load ≤  
              4000 Pa is required.
        b) 40 mm (1.57 in) when uplift load ≤ 2400 Pa is 
            required.
  	     Ensure the clamp’s thickness is at least 3 mm  
        (0.12 in).
·	 Clamp material should be anodized aluminum 
alloy or stainless steel.
·	 Clamp positions are of crucial importance for the 
reliability of the installation. The clamp centerlines 
must only be positioned within the ranges indica­
ted in table A, depending on the configuration and 
load. 
·	 For configurations where the mounting rails run 
parallel to the frame, precautions should be taken 
to ensure the bottom flange of the module frame 
overlaps the rail by 15 mm (0.59 in) or more.
ANNEX A: ALTERNATIVE MOUNTING METHODS
Min. 5 mm 
overlap
Min. 3 mm thickness
Min. overlap length 
40 mm
6
