www.canadiansolar.com
| 3
1.0  
GENERAL INFORMATION
This general manual provides important safety 
information relating to the installation, maintenance 
and handling of CS-series solar modules. 
Professional installer must read these guidelines 
carefully and strictly follow these instructions. 
Failure to follow these instructions may result in 
death, injury or property damage. The installation 
and handling of PV modules requires professional 
skills and should only be performed by qualified 
professionals. The installers must inform end–users 
(consumers) the aforesaid information accordingly. 
The word "module" or "PV module" used in this 
manual refers to one or more CS-series solar 
modules.
This manual is only valid for the standard module ty­
pes CS1V-MS, CS1VL-MS, CS1U-MS, CS1H-MS, CS1K-
MS, CS3U-P, CS3U-MS, CS3K-P, CS3K-MS, CS6A-P, 
CS6A-M, CS6V-P, CS6V-M, CS6K-P, CS6K-M, CS6K-MS, 
CS6V-MS, CS6VL-MS, CS6A-MS, CS6U-P, CS6U-M, 
CS3W-P, CS3L-P, CS3W-MS, CS3L-MS and CS1HA-MS.
(Notice: For KuLite CS3K-P, a special lightweight opti­
on for standard CS3K-P only applies to Japan region. 
Please refer to the separate Annex E : Mounting 
Method Clamping for KuLite to get its mounting 
methods.)
Please retain this manual for future reference. 
We recommend checking www.canadiansolar.com 
regularly for the most updated version.
1.1  
INSTALLATION MANUAL DISCLAIMER 
The information contained in this manual is subject
to change by Canadian Solar Inc. without prior 
notice. Canadian Solar Inc. gives no warranty of any 
kind whatsoever, either explicitly or implicitly, 
with respect to the information contained herein. 
In the event of any inconsistency among different 
language versions of this document, the English   
version shall prevail. Please refer to our product lists 
and documents published on our website at: http://
www.canadiansolar.com as these lists are updated 
on a regular basis.
1.2  
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
Canadian Solar Inc. shall not be held responsible for 
damages of any kind, including – without limitation 
– bodily harm, injury or damage to property, in 
connection with handling PV modules, system 
installation, or compliance or non-compliance with 
the instructions set forth in this manual.
2.0  
SAFETY PRECAUTIONS
                     Warning
                     Before attempting to install, wire, operate 
                    and / or service the module and other 
electrical equipment, all instructions should be 
read and understood. PV module connectors pass 
direct current (DC) when exposed to sunlight or 
other light sources. Contact with electrically active 
parts of the module, such as terminals, can result in 
injury or death, irrespective of whether or not the 
module and the other electrical equipment have 
been connected. 
                    AVERTISSEMENT:
                    Toutes les instructions devront être lues 
                    et comprises avant de procéder à 
l’installation, le câblage, l’exploitation et/ou l’entretien 
des panneaux. Les interconnexions des panneaux 
conduisent du courant continu (CC) lorsque le 
panneau est exposé à la lumière du soleil ou à 
d’autres sources lumineuses. Tout contact avec des 
éléments sous tension du panneau tels que ses 
bornes de sortie peut entraîner des blessures ou la 
mort, que le panneau soit connecté ou non.
GENERAL SAFETY
·	 All modules must be installed by licensed 
electricians in accordance to the applicable 
electrical codes such as, the latest National 
Electrical Code (USA) or Canadian Electric Code 
(Canada) or other national or international 
applicable electrical codes.  
Protective clothing (non-slip gloves, 
clothes, etc.) must be worn during 
installation to prevent direct contact with 
30 V DC or greater, and to protect hands 
