Scaled Dot-Product Attention
Multi-Head Attention
Figure 2: (left) Scaled Dot-Product Attention. (right) Multi-Head Attention consists of several
attention layers running in parallel.
query with all keys, divide each by √dk, and apply a softmax function to obtain the weights on the
values.
In practice, we compute the attention function on a set of queries simultaneously, packed together
into a matrix Q. The keys and values are also packed together into matrices K and V . We compute
the matrix of outputs as:
Attention(Q, K, V ) = softmax(QKT
√dk
)V
(1)
The two most commonly used attention functions are additive attention [2], and dot-product (multi-
plicative) attention. Dot-product attention is identical to our algorithm, except for the scaling factor
of
1
√dk . Additive attention computes the compatibility function using a feed-forward network with
a single hidden layer. While the two are similar in theoretical complexity, dot-product attention is
much faster and more space-efﬁcient in practice, since it can be implemented using highly optimized
matrix multiplication code.
While for small values of dk the two mechanisms perform similarly, additive attention outperforms
dot product attention without scaling for larger values of dk [3]. We suspect that for large values of
dk, the dot products grow large in magnitude, pushing the softmax function into regions where it has
extremely small gradients 4. To counteract this effect, we scale the dot products by
1
√dk .
3.2.2
Multi-Head Attention
Instead of performing a single attention function with dmodel-dimensional keys, values and queries,
we found it beneﬁcial to linearly project the queries, keys and values h times with different, learned
linear projections to dk, dk and dv dimensions, respectively. On each of these projected versions of
queries, keys and values we then perform the attention function in parallel, yielding dv-dimensional
output values. These are concatenated and once again projected, resulting in the ﬁnal values, as
depicted in Figure 2.
Multi-head attention allows the model to jointly attend to information from different representation
subspaces at different positions. With a single attention head, averaging inhibits this.
4To illustrate why the dot products get large, assume that the components of q and k are independent random
variables with mean 0 and variance 1. Then their dot product, q · k = Pdk
i=1 qiki, has mean 0 and variance dk.
4
