International Journal for Research in Applied Science & Engineering Technology (IJRASET) 
                                                                                                        ISSN: 2321-9653; IC Value: 45.98; SJ Impact Factor:6.887 
 
 
          Volume 5 Issue IX, September 2017- Available at www.ijraset.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1884 
©IJRASET (UGC Approved Journal): All Rights are Reserved
A Review Paper on Electricity Generation from 
Solar Energy 
Mohd Rizwan Sirajuddin Shaikh 1, Santosh B. Waghmare 2, Suvarna Shankar Labade 3, Pooja Vittal Fuke4, Anil Tekale5 
1, 2,3,4,5 Students, Department of Electrical Engineering, Savitribai Phule Pune University 
Abstract:  the Solar Energy is produced by the Sunlight is a non-vanishing renewable source of energy which is free from eco-
friendly. Every hour enough sunlight energy reaches the earth to meet the world’s energy demand for a whole year. In today’s 
generation we needed Electricity every hour. This Solar Energy is generated by as per applications like industrial, commercial, 
and residential. It cans easily energy drawn from direct sunlight. So it is very efficiency & free environment pollution for 
surrounding. In this article, we have reviewed about the Solar Energy from Sunlight and discussed about their future trends and 
aspects. The article also tries to discussed working, solar panel types; emphasize the various applications and methods to 
promote the benefits of solar energy. 
Keywords:  Renewable energy, Solar panel, Photovoltaic cell, Modelling of PV Panel, Solar Concrete Collector 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Nowadays, due to the decreasing amount of renewable energy resources, the last ten years become more important for per watt cost 
of solar energy device. It is definitely set to become economical in the coming years and growing as better technology in terms of 
both cost and applications. Everyday earth receives sunlight above (1366W approx.) This is an unlimited source of energy which is 
available at no cost. The major benefit of solar energy over other conventional power generators is that the sunlight can be directly 
converted into solar energy with the use of smallest photovoltaic (PV) solar cells. There have been a large amount of research 
activities to combine the Sun’s energy process by developing solar cells/panels/module with high converting form. the most 
advantages of solar energy is that it is free reachable to common people and available in large quantities of supply compared to that 
of the price of various fossil fuels and oils in the past ten years. Moreover, solar energy requires considerably lower manpower 
expenses over conventional energy production technology. 
II. SOLAR ENERGY 
Amount of energy in the form of heat and radiations called solar energy. Shown in Fig.1. It is radiant light and heat from sun that is 
natural source of energy using a range of ever changing and developing of technology such as solar thermal energy, solar 
architecture, solar heating, molten salt power plant and artificial photosynthesis.  The large magnitude of solar power available 
makes highly appealing source of electricity. 30% (approx.) solar radiation is back to space while the rest is absorbed by ocean, 
clouds and land masses. 
 
Figure 1 Internal of Reaction of Solar energy 
