 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
Page | 32 
2.8 Step 8: System protection and safety  
(1) Earthing system configurations 
Internationally, earthing systems are classified as TN System, TT System and IT System.   
 
TN system - has one or more points of the source of energy directly earthed and the exposed and extraneous 
conductive parts of the consumer side installation are connected by means of protective conductors to the 
earthed point(s) of the source, that is, there is a metallic path for earth fault currents to flow from the 
installation to the earthed point(s) of the source. TN systems are further sub-divided into TN-C, TN-S and 
TN-C-S systems.  
 
TT system - has one or more points of the source of energy directly earthed and the exposed and extraneous 
conductive parts of the installation are connected to a local earth electrode or electrodes are electrically 
independent of the source earth(s).  
 
IT system - has the source either unearthed or earthed through a high impedance and the exposed 
conductive parts of the installation are connected to electrically independent earth electrodes.  
 
In accordance to IS 3043: Code of Practice for Earthing, Indian distribution system uses an admixture of 
earthing types mentioned above. Different earthing systems for distribution network and corresponding 
earthing system for grid connected PV systems connected to the grid network have been discussed below.  
 
 
 
TN-S Earthing configuration for 1-phase 
TN-S Earthing configuration for 3-phase 
 
Figure 23: TN-S Earthing system configurations in accordance to IS 3043 
 
For TN-S earthing configuration, all exposed conductive parts of the installation are connected to protective 
conductor via the main earthing terminal of the installation. For 3-phase connections of configuration, an 
independent earth electrode within the customer premises in necessary. Earthing of solar PV system 
connected to this configuration can be connected to the main earthing terminal in switchboard. 
 
L1
L2
L3
N
PE
Source Earth
Consumer installation
Source of Energy
Exposed
Conductive Part
L1
L2
L3
N
PE
Consumer installation
Source of Energy
Source Earth
