 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
Page | 15 
Tilt angle and orientation: 
The recommended tilt angle of a module mounting structure to minimise wind pressure is <15o  for a flat 
surface. However, a minimum tilt of 10o should be maintained for natural cleaning of modules. Ideal 
orientation of a fixed PV Array should face towards true south (in northern hemisphere). However, for 
structural uniformity and to accommodate more capacity on a limited space of a RCC flat roof, the 
orientation could be aligned with roof orientation. A deviation up to 30o with respect to true south will not 
have major impact on energy generation. In case of an inclined roof, PV modules should always be installed 
at the same tilt and orientation of the roof. A racked mounting structure over a inclined roof is not 
recommended for strong wind zones.  
 
 
 
Racked mounting structure on a inclined roof 
Damaged rack mounting system installed in a 
moderate damage risk wind zone 
Figure 8: Damaging coating of structure will accelerate corrosion  
 
Mounting frame size: 
A mounting frame is a single table of mounting structure where PV modules are fixed either in landscape 
or portrait position. As design wind load is proportionate to the projected area normal to the wind, selection 
of mounting frame size will decide wind pressure on the PV array. Since Assam is situated in very high 
damage risk wind zones, it is of utmost importance to select the right mounting frame size and module 
position to minimise wind load and keep the solar plant safe. It is recommended that, for a RCC flat surface, 
not more than one module in landscape (parallel to the roof surface) should be installed in a racked mounting 
structure. Portrait position of module shall be avoided to minimise effective wind area. The recommended 
frame size for flat roof shall be 1 x 1 (landscape) and it shall not be higher than 1 x 5 (landscape) in a single 
row.  
 
In case of a inclined roof, modules will be installed in the same tilt angle that of the roof. No racking of 
modules shall be permitted on inclined roof. The recommended frame size for inclined roof shall be 1 x 1 
(portrait or landscape) and it shall not be higher than 1 x 5 (landscape) or 1 x 10 (portrait) in a single row.  
 
Racking of modules on 
inclined roof is not 
recommended 
