 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
Page | 18 
Ventilation for cooling of PV Modules: 
The temperature of a crystalline photovoltaic cell increases while PV modules are in operation. As 
temperature increases, efficiency of the module decreases. Therefore it is important that there is adequate 
ventilation for airflow on the backside of the PV modules to remove the generated heat to minimise the 
power loss due to temperature build-up. It is recommended that, when PV modules are installed on an RCC 
flat roof, a minimum clearance of the structure from the roof level should be 300mm.  
 
In case of an inclined roof, a gap of 100 -120mm  should be maintained between roof material and solar 
modules to ensure natural ventilation and cooling of PV modules.  Insufficient cooling will result in high 
module operating temperatures and lower outputs from the modules.  
 
 
Walkway for convenient walking of 
maintenance personnel 
Roof edge clearance and gap between PV modules 
and roof surface 
 
Figure 12: PV array installation on inclined roofs 
 
Ensure there is no Leakage on the Roof: 
Installation of a PV array mounting structure on the roof requires drilling of holes through roofing material 
which makes the roof vulnerable to leakage in cases of rain. Leakage from the roof after installation of solar 
PV modules is a common problem as a result of poor installation practice.  Therefore, it is important to 
understand best practices of installation to prevent rain water leakage.  
 
The following key points to be kept in mind: 
• 
Avoid drilling RCC roofs, instead use concrete ballast and adhesive materials to fix the structure; 
 
• 
Use proper flashing methods and sealant materials for metallic and tiled inclined roofs; 
 
• 
Use synthetic sealant which cures under water and can handle temperature up to 100 - 120oC; 
 
• 
Always fasten the roof attachments on the crest (top of corrugation) to fix the attachment;  
 
• 
Never drill on the trough (bottom of the corrugation);  
 
• 
Elevate the sealing area above possible water level. In case of low slope roof, seal the base of the 
flashing. 
