 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
Page | 41 
2.10 Step 10: Pre-commissioning tests 
After completion of installation process, a pre-commissioning test has to be performed. Conducting a pre-
commissioning test is very important to ensure there are no wrong connections in the system.   
 
Procedure to follow in sequence: 
(1) Ensure that the PV arrays (string or strings) are in segments (maintain below 70V).  
(2) Remove the string fuses if installed.  
(3) Make sure that isolators and circuit breakers are in the ‘OFF’ position. 
(4) Ensure that the PV array DC isolator and inverter AC isolator are in the ‘OFF’ position.  
(5) Ensure that the inverter is turned OFF. 
(6) Measure and confirm that no voltage is present across any string. 
(7) Measure and confirm that no voltage is present on the output side of the DC combiner box. 
(8) Check continuity of cables and complete the array cabling. 
(9) Confirm that the polarity of each of the array connections is correct.  
(10) Measure and record the open circuit voltage of each string as shown in the table below.  
(11) Measure irradiance, ambient temperature and cell temperature at the same time. 
(12) Observe variation between effective (string) voltage and measured (string) voltage.  
(13) If there is a variation greater than 5% in VOC (open circuit voltage) then investigate the problem.  
(14) Check the polarity at the input to the PV array DC isolator. 
(15) Measure and record the open circuit voltage (Voc) at the input to the DC isolator. 
(16) Check the polarity and continuity between the PV array DC isolator and the inverter. 
(17) Check the continuity between the inverter and the inverter AC isolator. 
(18) Check the continuity between the kWh meter and the inverter AC isolator. 
(19) Measure the voltage of the grid on the output (grid side) of the inverter AC isolator. 
(20) Measure the resistance of the earth system. 
(21) Conduct insulation testing of AC and DC cables  
 
Format of table to record string voltage:  
String 
No. 
Irradiance 
(W/m2) 
Ambient 
Temp 
(oC) 
Cell 
Temp 
(oC) 
VOC 
Effective 
(V) 
VOC 
Measured 
(V) 
Variation 
of VOC 
(%) 
Acceptable 
(Yes/ No) 
String 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
String 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
String 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
