 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
 
                  
 
Page | iii 
Disclaimer: 
This handbook on “Standard Operating Procedure for Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar 
Photovoltaic Systems” has been developed under the World Bank - SUPRABHA TA Program to 
support the Assam Energy Development Agency for quality assurance in implementation of grid 
connected rooftop solar photovoltaic systems in the state of Assam. This document is to be used for 
the purpose of reference only and actual design and installation will be as per specific site parameters 
and requirements. While views expressed in this manual are believed to be accurate at the time of 
writing, based on recent technical specifications and standards, such information and suggestions do 
not constitute a warranty, expressed or implied. GSES India Sustainable Energy Pvt. Ltd., Assam 
Energy Development Agency, the World Bank, MNRE, SBI and TA consortium partners do not 
assume responsibility and expressly disclaim liability for loss, injury, damage, expense or 
inconvenience sustained by any users of this manual or in relation to any information or data contained 
in this publication. 
 
 
 
Copyright © GSES India Sustainable Energy Pvt. Ltd 
This handbook has been prepared by GSES India Sustainable Energy Pvt. Ltd. as a consortium partner 
of the World Bank – SUPRABHA TA Program led by Ernst & Young to support implementation of 
rooftop solar PV programs in the state of Assam. GSES India Sustainable Energy Pvt. Ltd. holds the 
copyright of the handbook “Standard Operating Procedure for Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop 
Solar Photovoltaic Systems”. The implementing agencies, project developers, installation companies 
and entrepreneurs in the state of Assam will use this handbook to ensure quality of installation of grid 
connected rooftop solar photovoltaic systems. This handbook can be reproduced and distributed in 
unlimited numbers, promoted and published in public domain without any change in the content and 
graphics of the handbook. However, reproduction and distribution of this handbook or any part or 
content of the handbook by any party or person in digital and print media for commercial purpose is 
strictly prohibited.  
 
 
 
 
Edition: 
First Edition July 2019 
 
 
ISBN: 978-81-931645-0-3 
