 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
Page | 11 
2.2 Step 2: Installation of PV array mounting structure  
Failure of PV array mounting structures due to strong winds is a rising concern in Indian solar projects 
today. It is very common for PV array mounting structures to be conceptualised and designed primarily to 
enhance energy generation considering area specific tilt angle and use of tracking facility etc. A large 
number of solar PV systems are reported to be damaged due to inadequate design consideration for wind 
loading. Apart from the strength and wind loading capacity, a mounting structure must ensure that the PV 
array receives optimum solar radiation and reduces temperatures loss by allowing enough air circulation. It 
is also important to ensure that factors such as structure design, placement, orientation, tilt and shading are 
aligned with electrical string design and choice of inverter. 
 
Wind loading on PV array mounting  structure: 
The entire state of Assam falls under “Very high damage risk zone A and zone B” with basic wind speed 
of 180km/ hour and above according to IS 875 Part 3: Wind Loads on Buildings and Structure. The PV 
array mounting structure for any site in Assam shall be designed to withstand not less than 180km per hour 
wind speed for the areas under zone B and 200km per hour wind speed for the areas under zone A.  
 
Design of wind pressure must be calculated over basic wind speed, multiplying by the factors derived for - 
height of the building, topography, pressure coefficient based on roof type and slope, exposure category 
and importance factor as per IS 875 (Part 3) or ASCE-7.   
 
Table 2 in this handbook provides ready reference of design wind load at different roof heights for 180km 
per hour wind speed. This table has been specifically prepared for the state of Assam and can be used for 
preliminary assessment of design wind load at different roof heights in wind zone B. However, the actual 
design load is likely to vary, based on the specific site parameters. 
 
The design wind load provided in the table 2 is per unit projected area (m2) normal to the wind. Therefore, 
total wind pressure on a structure will be proportionate to the total projected area of the structure normal to 
the wind.  
 
Measures to be taken to minimise wind pressure on the mounting structure: 
 
• 
Keep the “effective wind area” as low as possible considering smaller mounting frame 
size and lower tilt angle.  
 
• 
On a flat RCC roof, keep the tilt angle of module mounting structure less than 15o to 
minimise wind pressure.  
 
• 
On a inclined roof, use the same tilt as that of the building roof. Never create another 
tilt on a inclined surface.  
 
• 
Never mount PV modules at the edges and corners of a building  roof (pressure co-
efficient zones) to minimise wind pressure (Refer Figure 6 of this handbook) 
  
