 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
 
                  
 
Page | iv 
About this handbook: 
This handbook on “Standard Operating Procedure for Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar 
Photovoltaic Systems” has been compiled with the help of different training materials and resources 
available at the GSES library, reference of relevant IEC and BIS standards and GSES India’s in-house 
expertise and experience. 
 
This handbook has been specifically prepared to support the implementation of residential grid 
connected rooftop solar PV systems in the state of Assam. Therefore, technical information, installation 
procedures and instructions given in the handbook are largely applicable and adequate for small grid 
connected rooftop solar PV systems to be implemented in the state of Assam.  
 
This handbook provides safety guidelines and step-by-step installation and commissioning procedures 
of grid connected rooftop PV systems in line with relevant IEC and BIS standards, CEA regulations 
and international best practices guidelines to ensure reliable system performance and electrical, 
mechanical and personal safety. Technical information and approach of this handbook is based on the 
predominantly available commercial technologies and components. Technologies such as - 
concentrating photovoltaic (CPV), bifacial PV modules and PV thermal hybrid collectors have not been  
considered. 
 
The installation procedures include twelve steps as below. These steps should be followed in sequence.   
 
Step 1: Site survey and shadow analysis 
Step 2: Installation of  PV array mounting structure 
Step 3: Installation and testing of structure earthing system 
Step 4: Installation of PV modules 
Step 5: Earthing of PV module frames 
Step 6: DC cabling 
Step 7: AC cabling and installation of inverter 
Step 8: System protection and safety 
Step 9: Placing of signage 
Step 10: Pre-commissioning tests 
Step 11: Commissioning the system 
Step 12: Anti-Islanding functionality test 
 
The main desired outcome of this manual is to facilitate the engineers and developers to ensure effective 
and quality installation of grid connected rooftop solar PV systems as per international best practices 
and standards to ensure safety, performance and reliability. 
 
We hope that this ready to practice handbook for solar photovoltaic engineers and developers will 
enhance their existing skills for effective and quality installation of grid connected rooftop solar PV 
systems, enabling them to generate a profitable business with better performance and reliability.   
 
 
