     
 
 
 
 
Standard Operating Procedure for Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems 
 - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
GSES Contact: 
 
GSES India Sustainable Energy Pvt. Ltd.  
F – 7B, Okhla Industrial Area Phase 1 
New Delhi - 110020, India  
Phone: +91 - 11 - 41040534  
Email: info@gses.in  
Web: www.gses.in 
About SUPRABHA 
The Sustainable Partnership for Rooftop Solar Acceleration in Bharat (SUPRABHA) is a USD13 
million program which is led by The World Bank and SBI and implemented in partnership with the 
Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). SUPRABHA  will be offering Technical Assistance 
to 17 Partner States (Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh, Delhi,  Haryana, 
Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim and 
Tripura) towards establishing an enabling ecosystem for accelerated  deployment of grid connected 
Rooftop Solar.  The consortium partners to implement SUPRABHA are EY, GSES,  Edelman, EVI, 
IDAM and SCGJ. EY is the lead partner.  
 
The SUPRABHA TA Program consists of six interventions namely Policy, Capacity Building, SSN 
Knowledge Exchange, Media and Outreach, Process Streamlining and Demand Aggregation. The 
program covers a wide range of stakeholders from consumers, regulators and distribution companies to 
urban local bodies, financial institutions and entrepreneurs.  
 
About GSES 
GSES India Sustainable Energy Pvt. Ltd. is the Indian counterpart of Global Sustainable Energy 
Solutions (GSES), Australia a multi-disciplinary organisation specialising in professional services and 
training across the Renewable Energies sector and comprises a team of highly experienced systems 
engineers, designers and installers and accredited trainers.  
 
GSES is recognised within industry as the leader in renewable energy innovation and technology 
education.  
GSES develops and delivers solar PV training courses in accordance with international competency 
standards and accreditation requirements.  Internationally, GSES undertake to guarantee the quality of 
all its training programs. 
 
GSES has authored a library of publications, including solar training books, solar reference books and 
solar business and marketing books. All books are updated regularly to ensure students and readers are 
presented with the most recent information available on renewable energy technology. 
The World Bank Contact: 
 
Dr. Amit Jain 
Renewable Energy Specialist 
Email: amitjain@worldbank.org 
 
 
