 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
Page | 36 
(2) Protection against overcurrent: 
Overcurrent within a PV array can result from earthing faults in array wiring or from fault currents due to 
short circuits in modules, in junction boxes, combiner boxes or in module wiring.   
 
Sizing Fault current protection device: 
As per IEC 62548: Design requirements for photovoltaic arrays, the rating of fault current protection device 
for each string should be 
 
1.5 x ISC MOD ≤ ITRIP ≤ 2.4 x ISC MOD 
 
Where, ISC MOD is the short circuit current of the module  
 
According to IEC62548, over current protection devices shall be installed in both positive and negative 
conductors. 
 
(3) Protection against effects of lightning and overvoltage: 
• 
To protect the DC system as a whole, surge protective devices shall be fitted between active 
conductors and the ground at the Inverter end of the DC cabling and at the array.  
 
• 
All DC cables should be installed so that positive and negative cables of the same string and the 
main array cable are bundled together, avoiding the creation of loops in the system. The 
requirement for bundling includes any associated earth/bonding conductors. 
 
• 
Long cables over about 50 m should be protected by a surge protective device (SPD). 
 
(4) Lightning Protection System (LPS) 
The need for a lightning protection system is to be assessed in accordance with IEC 62305-2 and, if required, 
it should be installed in compliance with IEC 62305-3 or IS 2309. The lightning protection system must be 
able to provide coverage for full plant.  
 
According to National Building Code of India 2016, vertical air-terminals are required for protecting roof 
mounted installations such as solar PV system. Protection angle should be considered as per Table 6 of SP7 
(National Building Code of India 2016).  A design according to rolling sphere method should be done for 
zone of protection (for example, 1m rod at 0.5m height from panel at four corners provides protection to 
approximately 12m x 9m area).  Maximum height of the air- termination rod above the panel should be 
restricted to less than 0.5m considering the influence of shadow from air-terminal.    
 
According to SP7(section 11.5.1.2), air-termination components installed on a structure shall be located at 
corners, exposed points and edges in accordance a) Protection angle method; b) Rolling sphere method; 
and c) Mesh method. The protection angle method is suitable for simple shaped buildings but it is subject 
to limits of air- termination height indicated in Table 6. The mesh method is a suitable form of protection 
where plane/ pitch roof surfaces are to be protected. The rolling sphere method is suitable in all cases. Refer 
table 6 and Figures 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20 and good practice in section 8-2(45) of SP7 (National Building 
Code of India 2016). Table 6 and Figure 16 presented below for reference.  
 
