 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
Page | 7 
Procedures to follow for shadow analysis: 
 
Shadow analysis – using solar pathfinder: 
The most accurate and easy method to determine usable and shadow free area is by using a solar pathfinder. 
The Solar Pathfinder is a simple but highly accurate tool for determining shadow free area at any location. 
The equipment works on a reflective principle rather than actually showing shadows. It can be used anytime 
of the day, anytime of the year, in either cloudy or clear weather. The actual position of the sun at the time 
of the solar site analysis is irrelevant. The sun path diagram provided with this device is latitude specific, 
which provides the percentage of solar radiation available at different times of the day. By positioning the 
solar pathfinder at the location where an object can  cast shadows, one can easily determine whether the 
location is shadow free or if shadow is unavoidable, how much energy will be blocked by the shadow until 
what time and which months of the year. The picture below shows solar pathfinder (left) and sun path 
diagram (right). The images seen in the solar pathfinder are objects (trees) which  will create shadows at 
different times of the day in different months of the year.  
 
 
 
Figure 3: Solar Pathfinder and sun path diagram (www.solarpathfinder.com)  
 
 
Shadow analysis – analysing sun position: 
When the position and height of the object are known, it is easy to calculate shadow length at different 
times of the day using a simple trigonometry formula as shown below. Azimuth angle and altitude angle 
can be derived from various web tools that are available in web domain. One such web tool is 
www.suncalc.org.   
 
Table 1 below provides position of sun over different locations in Assam on 21st December.   
 
To calculate minimum distance from the objects to proposed PV array to avoid shadowing, the formula 
given below could be used. Consider azimuth and altitude angle on 21st December (Northern Hemisphere) 
to get maximum distance in the year. 
