 
 
Installation of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Systems - A Handbook for Engineers & Developers 
 
 
Page | 22 
Important to Note: 
Horizontally stacking the modules causes stress on the modules at the bottom and can lead to 
micro-cracks that will be not be detected by naked eyes. Even if the separators are used, they 
are not strong and wide enough to sufficiently separate the modules from each other, thus the 
upper layers of the stack cause weight stress towards the lower layers that leads to micro-
cracks in the cells. 
 
(2) Loading, transport and unloading: 
• 
Modules may be damaged externally or internally, causing micro cracks while loading, transport 
and unloading. Any external damage or breakage is visible but internal damage to cells is not visible 
by naked eye and therefore precaution during loading, transportation and unloading should not be 
underestimated if there is no visible damage to the modules.  
 
• 
To avoid breakage and micro-cracks during loading, transportation and unloading of modules, the 
modules must be packaged properly even if the distance of travel is short.  Rough handling during 
loading and unloading and walking on the package must be avoided. While carrying the modules 
in a truck on a bumpy road, the speed of the truck must be controlled and kept at minimum to avoid 
vibration and jerking.  
 
 
 
Correct way of unpacking of PV modules 
Correct way of carrying PV modules 
 
Figure 15:Correct way of unpacking carrying PV modules 
 
• 
PV modules should be unpacked in the vertical manner as shown in the diagram by two persons. 
Also, care should be taken to avoid falling over of one module onto the other inside the packaging 
box. 
• 
Do NOT use a knife to cut the zip-ties, instead, use wire cutting pliers 
 
(3) Storage of PV modules: 
• 
Similar to packaging, solar modules should be stacked, packed and stored vertically and separators 
should be placed between each module. Horizontal stacking and storing should be avoided.   
