EN-Rev IM/GN-AM-EN/2.2 Copyright © July, 2020. Canadian Solar Inc.
46 | 
ANNEX D: MODULE CLEANING GUIDELINE
This manual covers requirements for the cleaning 
procedure of Canadian Solar Inc. photovoltaic mo­
dules. The purpose of these cleaning guidelines is to 
provide general information for cleaning Canadian 
Solar modules. Professional installers should read 
these guidelines carefully and strictly follow these 
instructions. 
Failure to follow these instructions may result in 
death, injury or property damage to the photovol­
taic module. Damages induced by inappropriate 
cleaning procedures will void Canadian Solar Inc. 
warranty.
SAFETY WARNING
·	 Cleaning activities create risk of damaging the 
modules and array components, as well as increa­
sing the potential electric shock hazard.
·	 Cracked or broken modules represent an electric 
shock hazard due to leakage currents, and the risk 
of shock is increased when modules are wet. 
    Before cleaning, thoroughly inspect modules for  
    cracks, damage, and loose connections.
·	 The voltage and current present in an array during 
daylight hours are sufficient to cause a lethal elec­
trical shock.
·	 Do not immerse the module, partially or totally, in 
   water or any other cleaning solution.
·	 Ensure that the circuit is disconnected before 
starting the cleaning procedure as contact with 
leakage of electrically active parts can result in 
injury.
·	 Ensure that the array has been disconnected from 
other active components (such as inverter or com­
biner boxes) before starting with the cleaning.
·	 Wear suitable protection (clothes, insulated gloves, 
etc.).
HANDLING NOTICE
·	 Use a proper cleaning solution and suitable 
cleaning equipment.
·	 Do not use abrasive or electric cleaners on the 
module. 
·	 Particular attention should be taken to avoid the 
module backsheet or frame to come in contact 
with sharp objects, as scratches may directly affect 
product safety.
·	 Do not use abrasive cleaners, de-greasers or any 
unauthorized chemical substance (e.g. oil, lubricant, 
pesticide, etc.) on the module.
·	 Do not use cleaning corrosive solutions containing 
hydrofluoric acid, alkali, acetone, or industrial alcohol. 
Only substances explicitly approved by Canadian Solar 
are allowed to be used for cleaning modules.
·	 Canadian Solar Inc. recommends to avoid rotating 	
	 brush cleaning methods, as they could create 	
	 micro-cracks in the PV modules.
·	 Dirt must never be scraped or rubbed away when 
dry, as this will cause micro-scratches on the glass 
surface.
OPERATION PREPARATION
·	 Noticeable dirt must be rubbed away by gentle 
cleaning-implement (soft cloth, sponge or brush 
with soft bristles). 
·	 Ensure that brushes or agitating tools are not   
   abrasive to glass, EPDM, silicone, aluminum, or 
   steel. 
·	 Conduct the cleaning activities avoiding the hottest 
hours of the day, in order to avoid thermal stress 
on the module.
We recommend the following to be used:
·	 Water with low mineral content
·	 Near neutral pH water
·	 The maximum water pressure recommended 
	 is 4 MPa (40 bar)
