EN-Rev IM/GN-AM-EN/2.2 Copyright © July, 2020. Canadian Solar Inc.
32 | 
MOUNTING METHOD B: 
INSERTION SYSTEMS
·	 The mounting method has been qualified by Cana­
dian Solar Inc. as well as certified by VDE and CSA.
·	 Insertion methods can vary and depend on the 
mounting structures. The installer needs to follow 
the mounting guidelines recommended by the 
mounting system supplier. Each module must be 
securely maintained through all its length on two 
opposite sides. Install and tighten the insertion 
profiles to the support structure using the hard­
ware and instructions provided by the mounting 
system manufacturer. The system designer and 
installer are solely responsible for load calculations 
and for the proper design of support structure. 
·	 Canadian Solar Inc. warranty may be void in cases 
where improper insertion systems or unsuitable 
installation methods are found. When installing 
insertion profiles, please take the following measu­
res into account:
         Do not bend the module frame.
         Do not touch the front glass or cast shadow     
         onto it.
         Do not damage the surface of the frame.
         Ensure that the insertion profiles overlap the  
         module frame by at least 10 mm (0.39 in).
         Ensure that the module frame (C-shape)  
         overlaps the insertion profiles by at least 
         15 mm (0.59 in).
         Ensure insertion profile thickness and  
         tolerances suit module thickness.
Min. 10 mm 
overlap
Min. 15 mm 
overlap
6
CS3U-P, CS3U-MS, CS6U-P and CS6U-M
Use two insertion profiles running parallel to the long 
side frame.
Maximum Load:
Uplift load ≤ 2400 Pa
Downforce load ≤ 5400 Pa
Use two insertion profiles running perpendicularly to 
the long side frame. An additional support bar should 
be placed below the module. Use two clamps on the 
support bar.
Maximum Load:
Uplift load ≤ 2400 Pa
Downforce load ≤ 5400 Pa
Maximum Load:
Uplift load ≤ 1400 Pa
Downforce load ≤ 1400 Pa
Use two insertion profiles running perpendicularly 
to the long side frame.
