www.canadiansolar.com
| 11
CORRECT CONNECTION OF PLUG CONNECTORS  
·	 Make sure that all connections are safe and 
properly mated. The PV connector should not be 
subjected to stress from the exterior. Connectors 
should only be used to connect the circuit. They 
should never be used to turn the circuit on and off. 
·	 Connectors are not waterproof when unmated. 
When installing modules, connector should be 
connected to each other as soon as possible or 
appropriate measures should be taken to avoid 
moisture and dust penetrating into the connector.
·	 Do not clean or precondition the connectors using 
lubricants or any unauthorized chemical substance.
USE OF SUITABLE MATERIALS  
·	 Only use dedicated solar cable and suitable 
connectors (wiring should be sheathed in a 
sunlight-resistant conduit or, if exposed, should be 
sunlight-resistant itself) that meet local fire, building 
and electrical regulations. Please ensure that 
all wiring is in perfect electrical and mechanical 
condition.  
·	 Installers may only use single-conductor cable 
listed and labeled as USE-2 or PV wire which 
is 90°C wet rated in North America, and single 
conductor cable, 2.5-16 mm² (5-14 AWG ), 90°C wet 
rated in other areas (i.e. TUV 2PfG1169 or EN50618 
approved), with proper insulation which is able to 
withstand the maximum possible system open-
circuit voltage. 
         
·	 Only copper conductor material should be used. 
Select a suitable conductor gauge to minimize 
voltage drop and ensure that the conductor 
ampacity complies with local regulations (i.e. NEC 
690.8(D)).
CABLE AND CONNECTOR PROTECTION  
·	 Secure the cables to the mounting system using 
UV-resistant cable ties. Protect exposed cables 
from damage by taking appropriate precautions 
(e.g. placing them inside a metallic raceway like 
EMT conduit). Avoid exposure to direct sunlight.
·	 A minimum bending radius of 60 mm (2.36 in) is 
   required when securing the junction box cables to 
   the racking system.
·	 Do not place connectors in locations where water 
could easily accumulate.
5.2 
GROUNDING
·	 For grounding requirements in North America, 
a module with exposed conductive parts is 
considered to comply with UL 1703 only when 
it is electrically grounded in accordance with 
both the instructions presented below and the 
requirements of the National Electrical Code. Any 
grounding means used with Canadian Solar Inc. 
modules should be NRTL certified to UL 467 and 
UL 2703 standards. Please consult our technical 
service team for the formal approval process.
·	 For grounding requirements in other areas, 
although the modules are certified to Safety Class 
II, we recommend them to be grounded and 	
that module installation should comply with all 
applicable local electrical codes and regulations.
·	 Grounding connections should be installed by a 
qualified electrician.
·	 Connect module frames together using adequate 
grounding cables: we recommend using 4-14 mm² 
(AWG 6-12) copper wire. Holes provided for this 
purpose are identified with a grounding symbol        
    
 (IEC 61730-1). All conductive connection junc­
tions must be firmly fixed.
·	 Do not drill any extra ground holes for convenien­
ce this will void the modules warranty.
·	 All bolts, nuts, flat washers, lock washers and other 
relevant hardware should be made of stainless 
steel, unless otherwise specified. 
·	 Canadian Solar Inc. does not provide grounding 
hardware.
·	 One grounding method is recommended for Ca­
nadian Solar Inc. standard modules, as described 
below. For alternative grounding methods, please 
refer to Annex B (Alternative Grounding Methods) 
of this installation manual. It may not be possible 
to use standard grounding methods for certain 
