www.canadiansolar.com
| 13
·	 In cases where an additional support bar is 
recommended to improve both mechanical 
stability and long-term module performance, we 
recommend selecting a sufficiently resistant 	
material. Canadian Solar Inc. recommends bars 
with a minimum thickness of 50 mm (1.97 in). 
The support bar centerline should be positioned 
within 100 mm (3.94 in) of the side frame centerline 
(slight shifts may be necessary to access module 
grounding holes).
·	 The loads described in this manual correspond 
to test loads. For installations complying with IEC  
61215-2: 2016 and UL 1703, a safety factor of 1.5 
should be applied for calculating the equivalent 
maximum authorized design loads. Project design 
loads depend on construction, applicable standards, 
location and local climate. Determination of the 
design loads is the responsibility of the racking 
suppliers and / or professional engineers. For 
detailed information, please follow local structural 
code or contact your professional structural 
engineer.
6.1  
MOUNTING METHOD: BOLTING
·	 This mounting method has been qualified by 
Canadian Solar Inc. as well as certified by VDE. and 
CSA. 
·	 Modules should be bolted to supporting structures 
through the mounting holes in the rear frame 
flanges only.
·	 Each module must be securely fastened at a 
minimum of 4 points on two opposite sides.
      
   M8 X 1.25 - Grade 8.8 (5/16”-18 Grade B7) 
galvanized or A2-70 stainless steel bolt and nut 
should be used. 
   The yield strength of bolt and nut should not be 
less than 450 MPa.
·	 Tightening torques should be 17~23 Nm (12.5~17.0 
ft-lbs) respectively for M8 (5/16”-18) coarse thread 
bolts, depending on bolt class. 
·	 In areas with heavy wind loads, additional 
mounting points should be used. The system 
designer and the installer are responsible for 
correctly calculating the loads and ensuring that 
the supporting structure meets all the applicable 
requirements. 
Mounting method: Bolting
·	 Modules should be bolted at the following hole 
locations depending on the configuration and 
loads:
Bolt
Frame
Nut
Spring
Washer
Washer
Washer
Rail
