EN-Rev IM/GN-AM-EN/2.2 Copyright © July, 2020. Canadian Solar Inc.
12 | 
1. To fix the wire between 
     the flat washer and 
     cup washer, place the 
     cup washer (concave 
     side up) between the 
     frame and the wire.
2. Then tighten the bolt 
    using the toothed nut.
·	 A grounding kit containing an M5 (3/16") SS cap 
bolt, an M5 (3/16") SS flat washer, an M5 (3/16") 
SS cup washer, and an M5 (3/16") SS nut (with 
teeth) is used to attach copper grounding wire 
to a pre-drilled grounding hole on the frame (see 
image below). 
·	 Place the wire between the flat washer and the cup 
washer. Ensure that the cup washer is positioned 
between the frame and the wire with the concave 
side up to prevent galvanic corrosion. Tighten the 
bolt securely using the SS toothed nut. A wrench may 
be used to do this. The tightening torque is 3-7 Nm 
(2.2-5.2 ft-lbs).
6.0  
MOUNTING INSTRUCTIONS
 The applicable regulations pertaining to  
                   work safety, accident prevention and 
                   securing the construction site must be 
observed. Workers and third party personnel shall 
wear or install fall arrest equipment. Any third 
party need to be protected against injuries and 
damages.
·	 The mounting design must be certified by a 
registered professional engineer. The mounting 
design and procedures must comply with all 
applicable local codes and requirements from all 
relevant authorities.
·	 The module is considered to be in compliance with 
UL 1703 and IEC 61215 only when the module is 
mounted in the manner specified by the mounting 
instructions included in this installation manual.
·	 Any module without a frame (laminate) shall not be 
considered to comply with the requirements of UL 
1703 unless the module is mounted with hardware 
that has been tested and evaluated with the 
module under this standard or by a field inspection 
certifying that the installed module complies with 
the requirements of UL 1703.
·	 Canadian Solar Inc. does not provide mounting 
hardware.
·	 Standard modules can be mounted onto a support 
structure using one of several approved methods. 
One of such methods is described below. For details 
of other mounting methods and the methods re­
commended by Canadian Solar Inc. for special mo­
dule ranges, please refer to the Annex A (Alternative 
Mounting Methods) of this installation manual. 
For information about other installation methods, 
please contact your local representative. Failure to 
use a recognized installation method will void the 
Canadian Solar Inc. warranty.
·	 Use appropriate corrosion-proof fastening 
materials. All mounting hardware (bolts, spring 
washers, flat washers, nuts) should be hot dip 
galvanized or stainless steel.  
·	 Use a torque wrench for installation. 
·	 Do not drill additional holes or modify the module 
frame. Doing so will void the warranty. 
·	 Standard modules can be installed in either 
landscape or portrait orientations. Refer to the 
detailed instructions for further guidance. Please 
note that in areas with heavy snowfall (> 2400 Pa) 
further countermeasures such the use of additional 
support bars should be considered to avoid snow 
loads damaging the lowest row of modules.
module ranges. Please refer to Annex B for more details.
GROUNDING METHOD: 
BOLT + TOOTHED NUT + CUP WASHER.
