• 
The contract of works agreed is between the Homeowner and the Contractor only. SEAI accepts no 
liability or responsibility for any breach of contract between the Homeowner and the Contractor. SEAI 
does not approve the contractors/installers. 
For the full list of Terms & Conditions please refer to the Solar PV Scheme Application Guide, available at: 
https://www.seai.ie/grants/home-energy-grants/individual-grants/solar-electricity-grant/Solar-PV-Scheme-
Guide-1.pdf 
 
How to sell electricity back to the grid 
 
Homes with PV systems that generate more energy than they consume can now export that excess to the 
grid and benefit from payment for that exported electricity. This payment is known as the Clean Export 
Guarantee (CEG) and is essentially a feed-in tariff. This tariff will be paid at a ‘competitive market rate’ from 
your electricity supplier. Each supplier will set their rates so you will need to contact your electricity supplier 
directly for details of their CEG rates.  
The CEG will be available to both new and existing micro-generators, subject to the eligibility criteria.  
You will need to have a suitable ESB Networks export grid connection to avail of the CEG. 
You will also need to have a smart meter installed to get paid precisely for what is exported. If you do not 
have a smart meter installed, you will get paid based on a deemed volume assumption determined by the 
CRU. 
You do not need a smart meter to avail of the SEAI grant but may need one to 
avail of the clean export guarantee, which is a payment for excess power to 
the grid. 
 
You will continue to be able to apply to the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland (SEAI) for a grant towards 
the cost of installing equipment.  
• 
for information on the Clean Export Guarantee (CEG) contact your electricity supplier in the first instance 
• 
for information on grid connections, contact ESB Networks 
• 
for information on grants, contact the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland 
 
Choosing Your Solar PV Company  
 
Under the SEAI grant scheme a solar PV system must be compliant with all applicable Irish legislation, building 
regulations, and applicable guidance. The Company has total responsibility for ensuring compliance. The 
Installer must be registered on SEAI’s Solar PV Installer Register at the time the installation is carried out. The 
Installer must satisfy themselves, and certify, that the solar PV system installation has been designed, installed, 
tested, and commissioned in accordance with the code of practice, and other relevant codes, standards and 
building regulations. The Installer must, at his/her cost, provide all information required by SEAI or SEAI’s 
agents for the purposes of audit and inspection. 
 
 
• 
SEAI recommends you get at least four quotes from different companies, research the company online, 
ask to see references to past projects, and/or speak to past customers of the company.  
• 
SEAI strongly advises that you do not proceed with works unless a written contract is in place between 
you and your contractor. This affords you appropriate levels of consumer protection. 
