Finally, it is worth considering other options to improve the energy performance of your home, such as 
insulation, draught-proofing, improved windows, boiler controls, or some other renewable-generating 
technology. Speaking to a BER assessor is a good first step. 
8. Who can install solar panels on my property? 
Finding a competent installer is important. There are currently no formal qualifications mandated that 
installers must hold, but connection of the solar system must be carried out by a Registered Electrical 
Contractor. 
SEAI’s advice would be to contact multiple installers or developers to get a range of quotes. A good place to 
start is the Renewable Installers Register which identifies installers that have received accredited training. 
9. Do I need planning permission to install solar PV on my roof? 
Domestic houses, regardless of location, may now install unlimited solar panels on their rooftops without any 
requirement for planning permission (subject to certain conditions).  
❖ There is no limit to the area of solar panels which can be installed on rooftops of homes, 
anywhere in the country 
❖ Solar installations will be able to cover the entire roof of a house  
❖ The 12sqm/50% roof limit which previously applied to houses has been removed nationwide  
❖ Heritage homes, Listed buildings and homes in Special Areas of Conservation will need to 
contact their Local Authority regarding planning, before proceeding. 
If your planned works don’t comply with these conditions, you must contact the planning department of your 
Local Authority for specific guidance. In addition, depending on the: 
❖ Exact classification - for example, a protected structure 
or 
❖ The location of the property - for example, an architectural conservation area  
further requirements may need to be considered. We recommend that you contact the planning department 
of your Local Authority for guidance. 
10. What will be installed in my home if I purchase a rooftop solar PV system? 
The main components are the solar panels which will be located on the roof area, and the inverter which will 
be located within your house or attic. The solar panels convert the light into DC electricity, and the inverter 
converts this DC electricity into AC electricity for use in your home. The solar system will be connected to 
your main electricity panel (‘fuseboard’). Other optional components are an immersion diverter switch, 
battery, or energy meter (see questions 2.6 and 2.7 for more information). 
11. How will the solar panels be fixed to my roof? 
There are several well-proven solutions to connect the solar panels to your roof. Most solutions fix the solar 
panels above the existing roof tiles on aluminium rails, but some solutions allow for an integrated, ‘flush’, 
connection where the roof tiles are removed and replaced with the solar panels. The most important 
consideration for homeowners is that the water tightness of your roof is not affected by the installation. 
Installers should not be permitted to drill into roof tiles to connect the PV panels, as this could lead to future 
leaks in your roof. 
12. How can I maximize the amount of electricity generated that I use? 
The simplest way to use a higher percentage of the electricity generated is to design the PV system to meet 
the electricity demand of the house, although this may mean a very small PV system is installed if demand is 
low during the daytime. 
