CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
25 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
3.3     Installation guidelines 
          The installation of Solar Power System involves the following major steps: 
 
 
Civil Foundation Job 
 
Assembly and fixing of support structure. 
 
Mounting of Solar Modules on the Support Structure. 
 
Installation of Battery Bank. 
 
Interconnection of SPV panel in series & parallel configuration, Charge Control Unit 
and FJB 
 
Connection of Battery Bank and Load  
 
Earthing of Lightning Protection Unit. 
 
3.3.1  Mounting the Solar Modules  
For mounting the solar panels first determine mounting method i.e. Roof mount or Ground 
mount.  
 
While mounting the solar Modules, following points should be considered for getting 
maximum output from the solar modules: 
 
 Modules should be oriented south facing to receive maximum sunlight.. 
 The Modules produce more power at low temperature and full sun. 
 Tracking the Sun increases the amount of power from an array 
 
The Solar panels are generally installed in such a way that they can receive maximum 
direct sunlight without shade from any building/trees nearby falling on them at any part 
of the day. 
 
As we know that the Sun rises in the East and sets in the West as a result of Earth’s 
rotation around its own axis. Also the Earth revolves around the Sun. Due to these two 
movements there is variation in the angle at which the Sun’s rays fall on Earth’s surface 
over a year. At any particular place on Earth this variation in angle in one year may be 
upto 45 degrees. Considering these facts the following guidelines are to be kept in mind 
while installing solar panels: 
 
1. Solar panels should be installed at an angle of ‘(LATITUDE of the place + 10) degree’ 
from horizontal. For example, New Delhi has a latitude of 26 degree, hence any solar 
panel in New Delhi is to be installed at an angle of 26 + 10=36 degree inclined to 
horizontal. 
 
2. Solar panels should be installed South facing in the Northern hemisphere and North 
facing in the Southern hemisphere. Since India is in the Northern hemisphere, Solar 
panels will be installed always- South facing in our country. The directions North- 
South may be found with the help of Magnetic Compass. The picture given in Fig 3.3 
illustrates this. 
 
Click for contents
Click for contents
