CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
29 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
(iii) 
Interconnections between Charge controller and Solar Modules  
For interconnections between charge controller and solar modules, the following 
general installation guidelines shall be followed: 
 
 For interconnecting the SPV/Arrays with charge controller and battery bank, 
use minimum wire length so as to avoid the DC voltage drop in the line. At 
the same time care must be taken to ensure that no wires are hanged loose. 
 Connect all modules in series & parallel conections. 
 Use cable conductor size as given below to avoid voltage drop of the system: 
 
(i) 
For Series connection of modules – 1 X 2.5 Sq. mm PVC sheathed 
unarmoured. 
(ii) 
For Parallel connection of modules – 2 X 2.5 Sq. mm PVC sheathed 
unarmoured. 
(iii) 
From FJB to Charge controller and Charge controller to Battery bank – 2 
X 10 Sq. mm PVC sheathed unarmoured. 
 
 Open the junction boxes (FJBs) and remove the fuses provided inside the 
junction boxes. 
 
 
 
 Connect Battery Positive (+) and Battery Negative (-) OF Charge Controller 
TO the Battery Bank. 
 Next connect SPV-1 Negative (-) and SPV-1 Positive of Charge Controller. 
 
 
 
 
 Battery connections must be given first to charge controller. 
 Insert and replace all the fuses of junction boxes AFTER connecting all the 
cables to Charge Controller and to the battery bank of 110 V 300AH. 
 Do not short negative terminals of the system. 
 All the Positive (+) and Negative (-) wires will run separately from the 
junction boxes. 
 
 
Note: Charge Controller will be damaged if SPV Array is connected first 
and then the Battery bank. 
Note: Switch ON MCB of the Charge Controller when all the connections 
are thoroughly checked and fuses are replaced in the junction boxes. 
Note: Switch OFF MCB of Charge Controller before any connection. 
Go to Index
Click for contents
Click for contents
