CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
14 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
         The values of parameters from (a) to (f) above shall be specified under standard test 
conditions of  
(a) 
Cell junction temperature of 25 ± 2ºC. 
(b) 
Irradiance of 1000 Watt/M.Sq. as measured with a reference solar cell (duly certified 
by a recognized national/international test house/lab. nominated for this purpose. 
(c) 
Standard Solar spectral energy distribution. 
(d) 
Air Mass of 1.5. 
 
        The frame of the mounting fixture shall be made of anodized aluminium, conforming to 
specification IS: 7088-1973 with 20 micron anodization thickness.  All other parts such as 
fasteners etc. shall be made of galvanized or stainless steel to make them weather-proof.  In 
addition to holes provided for fixing on to mounting structure, extra holes are to be 
provided suitably in the frame for cable routing. 
 
        The solar module shall be able to withstand a maximum mean hourly rainfall of 40 mm. 
          
        The solar module shall be able to withstand humidity level of upto 95%. 
 
        The conversion efficiency of the modules upto 35W shall not be less than 8% and for 
modules greater than 35W shall not be less than 12%. 
 
         The cell efficiency of the solar cells shall be greater than 12%.  
 
         If required by the purchaser, the back plastic laminate shall be replaced by a toughened 
glass sheet to make the module suitable for use in coastal areas/industrially polluted 
areas/places where the plastic laminate is likely to get corroded. 
 
         If required by the purchaser, an aluminum backing plate to protect the module from 
miscreants shall be provided. 
 
2.3    Primary phases of designing an SPV system 
          The primary phases of designing a Photovoltaic system consists of the following steps: 
 
1. 
Planning 
2. 
Collection of  information/data 
3. 
Load calculation 
4. 
Sizing Solar Array 
5. 
Deciding Battery capacity 
6. 
Selection of Charge Controller 
7. 
Deciding Inverter capacity 
8. 
Structure 
9. 
Wiring 
Click for contents
Click for contents
