CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
13 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
         The output terminals of the module shall be provided on the back of the solar PV-module.  
Terminal block shall be made of Nylon-6.  It shall be housed in a HDPE-UV stable 
junction box secured physically uniformly to the frame of the PV module.  The junction 
box should have a hinged lid with self-holding fasteners enabling easy handling.  The box 
lid should be secured with a gasket for greater protection against ingress of moisture 
(conforming to IP-55) of IS: 2147-62).  Cable outlets from solar PV module terminal shall 
be through cable glands to be provided in the junction box (with addl. knockouts provided) 
to help in series /parallel connection of solar PV modules.  The junction box should have 
common terminals with suitable by pass diodes for prevention of hot spot problem. 
 
         If required by the purchaser the module shall be fixed on a mounting bracket, which shall 
be suitably designed to withstand the weight of the panel.  The mounting arrangement shall 
be suitable for pole mounting, column mounting or flat surface, as desired by the purchaser. 
 
         Provision for directional and angular adjustment shall be provided to get maximum 
utilization of incident sunlight. 
 
         The design/drawings of the mounting bracket shall be supplied along with the module to 
the purchaser. 
 
         The supplier shall give information regarding the weight and dimensions of the module, to 
the purchaser. 
 
         The solar photovoltaic module shall be highly reliable, light-weight and shall have a long 
operational life. 
 
         The recommended values of output power from each module are 4, 6, 9, 12, 30, 32, 35, 40, 
50, 70, 80 & 100 watts.  The purchaser shall, however, specify the output wattage of the 
module required by him. 
 
        The recommended nominal voltages of each module are 4, 6, 9, 12 & 24Volts.  The 
purchaser shall, however, specify the voltage of the module required by him. 
 
2.2.2  Technical requirements 
        Some of the important technical requirements as per IRS:S 84-92 are as given below: 
         
        The following parameters shall be clearly specified by the manufacturer for different type of 
solar modules manufactured by him: 
 
a) Peak power output 
 
 
(Pm) 
b) Current at peak power output 
(Im) 
c) Voltage at peak power output 
(Vm) 
d) Short circuit current  
            (Isc) 
e) Open circuit voltage  
           (Voc) 
f) Conversion efficiency of the module (n) 
 
Click for contents
Click for contents
