CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
1 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
Section I 
Solar energy and its applications 
 
1.1 Introduction 
 
The sources of conventional and non-renewable energy such as coal, petrol, diesel etc. are 
diminishing continuously on Earth, the formation of which is a long process. Hence a need 
for alternative energy sources was felt such as Wind energy, Bio-energy, Solar energy. 
These are called as non-conventional or renewable energy sources. Solar energy, which is 
abundant in nature and free of cost, is considered to be the best and most popular one.  
 
Solar energy is obtained through the use of Solar cells. The Solar cells convert sunlight into 
electrical energy, based on the principle of photovoltaic effect. The electricity so obtained 
can directly be used to charge the batteries used for various appliances.  
 
Indian Railways is also a consumer of electricity for general lighting, operation of rolling 
stock, Telecommunication and Signalling gears such as Signals, Point machines, Relays, 
Block instruments, Axle Counters etc. Hence solar energy has a wide range of applications 
in Indian Railways especially at remote or hilly places where grid supply is not available 
round the clock or not available at all.  
 
1.2 Advantages and Disadvantages of Solar Panel  
 
       Advantages 
 Fuel source for Solar Panel is direct and endless so no external fuels required. 
 Sunlight - free of cost. 
 Unlimited life of Solar Modules, fast response and high reliability. 
 Can operate under high temperature and in open. 
 Inherently short circuit protected and safe under any load condition. 
 Pollution free. 
 Minimum Maintenance 
 Independent working 
 Operation is simple and no electrochemical reaction and no liquid medium. 
 Noise-free as there are no moving parts. 
 No AC to DC conversion losses as DC is produced directly. 
 No transmission losses as installed in the vicinity of the load. 
 Suitable for remote, isolated and hilly places. 
 Suitable for moving loads/objects 
 Since it is in modular form, provision of future expansion of capacity is available. 
 It can generate powers from milli-watts to several mega watts. 
 It can be used almost everywhere from small electronic device to large scale MW power 
generation station. 
 It can be installed and mounted easily with minimum cost. 
Click for contents
