CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
11 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
Section II 
Designing a Solar Photovoltaic System 
 
2.1        Definitions 
             The following definitions are very important in designing a solar photo voltaic system.  
 
Solar Cell 
The basic photovoltaic device, which generates electricity when exposed to sunlight, shall 
be called a “Solar Cell”.  
 
Solar Module 
The smallest complete environmentally protected assembly of interconnected solar cells 
shall be called “Module”. 
 
Solar Panel 
A group of modules fastened together, pre-assembled and interconnected, designed to 
serve as an installable unit in an Array shall be called “Panel”. 
 
Solar Array 
A mechanically integrated assembly of modules or panels together with support structure, 
but exclusive of foundation, tracking, thermal control and other components, as required 
to form a dc power producing unit shall be called an “Array”. 
 
            Solar irradiation 
On any given day the solar radiation varies continuously from sunrise to sunset and 
depends on cloud cover, sun position and content and turbidity of the atmosphere.  
The maximum irradiance is available at solar noon which is defined as the midpoint, in 
time, between sunrise and sunset. The total solar radiant power incident upon unit area of 
an inclined surface (Watt/m²) is called total solar irradiance. 
    
   Insolation 
Insolation differs from irradiance because of the inclusion of time. Insolation is the amount 
of solar energy received on a given area over time measured in kilowatt-hours per square 
meter squared (kW-hrs/m2) - this value is equivalent to "peak sun hours".  
        Peak Sun Hours 
Peak sun hours is defined as the equivalent number of hours per day, with solar irradiance 
equaling 1,000 W/m2, that gives the same energy received from sunrise to sunset.  
Peak sun hours is of significance because PV panel power output is rated with a radiation 
level of 1,000W/m2. 
Many tables of solar data are often presented as an average daily value of peak sun hours 
(kW-hrs/m2) for each month. 
Click for contents
Click for contents
