CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
8 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
1.10.2  Battery Bank 
The Sun is not always available and it is not regular. However, loads are to be fed any time 
of the day. Therefore power should be stored in a battery bank. Low maintenance Lead acid 
battery as per IRS: S 88/2004 or latest of specified capacity will be provided. The capacity 
of this battery bank is given in Ampere - Hour (AH) and bus bar voltage. The bus-bar 
voltage is decided by the voltage requirement of the load. 
 
1.10.3  Solar Charge Controller 
Charge controller is the interface between Array and battery bank. It protects the battery 
from overcharging and moderate charging at finishing end of charge of battery bank. 
Therefore it enhances the life of the battery bank. It also indicates the charging status of 
batteries like battery undercharged, overcharged or deep discharged through LEDs 
indications. Some switches and MCBs are also provided for manual or accidental cut-off of 
charging. In some charge controllers load terminals are also provided through a low battery 
charge cut-off device so that it can protect the battery bank from deep discharge. Solar 
Charge Controller units for Indian Railways are manufactured as per RDSO Specification 
No.RDSO/SPN/187/2004. The front view of a typical CEL make Charge Controller is 
shown in Fig.1.7. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 Fig.1.7 : Front view of a Charge Controller  
        
The technology adopted nowadays for manufacturing solar charge controller is MOSFET/IGBT 
technology. With this technology the idle current of the controller is less than 50 mA depending 
upon the rating of the charge controller and its current. First the controller is connected to battery 
bank and then it is connected to Solar Array/Solar module for sensing the voltage from the 
module. When the system is put into operation, the SPV modules start charging the battery bank. 
Care should be taken that in no case the battery connections are removed from the controller 
terminals when the system is in operation, otherwise SPV voltage may damage the Charge 
controller, since the Solar voltage is always higher than the battery voltage. 
 
Click for contents
Click for contents
