CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
30 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
Section IV 
     Maintenance & Troubleshooting 
 
 
        4.1    Maintenance 
Solar panels require virtually no maintenance. However the associated equipments 
such as batteries and charge controller are to be maintained. Once a fortnight the 
surface of the panels should be wiped clean with wet rag to remove dust, fallen 
leaves, bird dropping etc. Only water to be used and no other cleaning agent. 
 
With Solar Panel Secondary battery maintenance becomes minimum. Still general 
periodical maintenance of battery should be carried out in usual manner and as per 
maintenance manual. 
For efficient working of  SPV system certain precautions are to be observed as given 
below. 
 
        4.1.1Precautions and Preventive Steps 
Please ensure that: 
a) SPV Modules are connected in parallel and SPV Panel output voltage is less than 
25 Volts under normal sunshine condition (for 12 V System/Module) 
b) All connections are properly made tight and neat using the crimped Red (for +ve) 
and Black (for –ve) wires supplied by the manufacturer in order to avoid reverse 
connection. 
c) The rating of the fuse in the charge controller is not changed. 
d) The SPV Panel is installed facing SOUTH and with the correct ‘Angle of tilt’. 
e) There is no shadow on any part of the SPV Panel at any time of the day, to get 
maximum power. 
f) SPV Modules are protected against any act of vandalism and accidental strike or 
hit by heavy objects, like stone, hammer etc. If the SPV Panel is installed on 
ground, it must be fenced properly to protect it from cattle and to prevent from 
any damage/theft. Fencing should be made in such a way that no shadow should 
fall on SPV Panel at any time of the day. 
g) Battery Bank is placed on a rack or platform insulated from ground and located in 
a well-ventilated room and also sufficient clearance is there over the battery. 
h) FIRST the Battery Bank, then SPV Panel and then Load is connected to SPV 
Charge Control Unit and for disconnection reverse sequence is adopted. 
i) Battery terminals are never shorted even momentarily as shorting will result in 
HEAVY SPARK AND FIRE. (To avoid the same connect the cable at Charge 
Controller end ‘First’ and then Battery end.) 
j) Never connect the Load directly to the SPV Panel as SPV Panel may give 
higher/lower voltage than required by the Load Equipment and hence the 
equipment may be DAMAGED permanently. 
k) Blocking diode is provided at the array output for protection against reverse 
polarity. 
Click for contents
Click for contents
