CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
9 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
LED indications of Charge Controller 
        
Sr. No. 
LED Colour 
Indication 
1. 
GREEN 
Boost Charging (SPV1 & SPV2) 
2. 
YELLOW 
Float Charging (SPV) 
3. 
RED 
Battery LOW  
4. 
RED 
Battery REVERSE with Alarm 
5. 
RED 
PV REVERSE with Alarm 
 
1.10.4  Field Junction Box (FJB) 
FJB is the interface between Solar panels and the 
Charge 
Controller. 
All 
the 
incoming/outgoing 
cables/wires from Solar panel to Charge Controller are 
terminated at FJB. 
 
                                               
                                                               Fig.1.8 : A typical FJB 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.10.5  Solar Module Mounting Structure 
This is made up of galvanized iron frames and angles. In this structure flexibility is 
provided to change the module-mounting angle seasonally. This structure is grouted by 
small civil work and modules are mounted subsequently. Also, this mounting structure 
should be earthed suitably at several places if voltage of the array is more than 50 Volts.  
 
1.10.6 Earthing kit 
Earthing kit is provided to earth the mounting structure. Provision of earthing shall be done 
as follows: 
The installation shall have proper earth terminals and shall be properly earthed. 
Zonal Railways shall provide earthing arrangement as per IS:S 3043 and directions issued 
by RDSO for Lighting and Surge protection for signaling equipment vide letter No. 
STS/E/SPD dated 22.06.2004. The earth resistance shall not be more than 2 ohm. Earth 
provided shall preferably be maintenance free using earth resistance improvement material. 
 
1.10.7  Cables 
We require different types of cables to connect module to module, modules to charge 
controller, charge controller to battery, or connect battery to load as required. The cable 
size used for interconnection of SPV module, Charge Controller and battery shall be 
minimum 2 X 2.5 sq. mm Cu. Cable. As far as some hardware is concerned the screws and 
bolts/nuts are of Chrome plated, stainless steel and brass so that rusting should not be take 
place. 
 
Click for contents
Click for contents
