CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
31 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
l) Make sure that the Solar PV module gets direct sunlight throughout the day where 
you install it. 
m) The Green indicator on Charge controller is only an indication for charging. It 
will glow even at small amount of charging. So to ensure efficient charging, the 
availability of direct sunlight over the Solar PV module for the maximum hours of 
the day should be ensured. 
n) It is NOT HEAT BUT LIGHT that produces energy. So let direct sunlight to fall 
on the module surface without shades.  
 
       4.2   Troubleshooting 
The SPV Power Source is reliable Source of Electrical energy. However, there may 
be rare instances, when the SPV Power Source is not able to drive the connected 
equipment. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4.1: SPV Power Source 
The diagnosis of the problem in such situations starts with the battery. Check the 
voltage of the battery bank. If the voltage of the battery bank is correct as indicated in 
Charge controller, there may be problem in the inverter or switch between load and 
inverter i.e. either inverter is tripped or switch/load MCB is tripped or load fuse is 
blown off. If none of the above fault is observed then check the specific gravity of the 
electrolyte in the secondary cells of the battery. There may be two cases: 
 
a) 
If the specific gravity is above the level 1.2 (Hydrometer reading 1200) value or 
as specified in the maintenance manual, it implies that the battery is in order and 
the problem would be either with the Charge Controller or Load. Disconnect the 
load (S & T Equipment) from Charge Controller and connect it directly to Battery 
Bank. If the equipment operates, the defect may be with the Charge Controller. 
Disconnect the Charge Controller and check as per troubleshooting instructions 
given in the manual supplied with it or inform the manufacturer/supplier. 
 
b) If the specific gravity of the electrolyte is below the specified level and 
BATT/LOW (Red)) LED is glowing, the problem may be with any of the 
following: 
 
i. 
Load: This may be drawing more current from the battery than required. In such 
case, battery is bound to get discharged, even if SPV Panel is functioning 
properly. This would result in frequent tripping of the load. To avoid this, get the 
load equipment checked and replace any defective components.  
Click for contents
Click for contents
