CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
17 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
2.3.6  Selection of Charge Controller 
Charge controllers are included in most PV systems to protect the batteries from 
overcharge and/or excessive discharge. The minimum function of the controller is to 
disconnect the array when the battery is fully charged and keep the battery fully charged 
without damage.  
The charging routine is not the same for all batteries. A charge controller designed for 
lead- acid batteries should not be used to control NiCd batteries. 
Charge controllers can be used in parallel to add more modules to a battery bank. 
           
             Salient feature of Charge controller  
 Power devices should be of Solid state, High efficiency with Two stage charging 
technique. 
 Protection against Transient/Surge.   
 Prevent discharge of battery  through solar panel during night. 
 Protection against overcharge of the battery. 
 Protection against reverse connection of battery and module. 
 Robust enclosure and cooling with heat sink. 
 Control, temperature compensated set points and equalization. 
 Suitable MCB’s provided at Solar input of 100 Amp. 
 
Typical per cell voltages at ambient temperature 24º - 25º C 
Boost charging upto                 : 2.34 V 
Float stage voltage maintains   : 2.29 V 
Boost stage reactivates at         : 2.14 V 
Battery low at                           : 1.74 V 
 
Calculate total current that Charge Controller will control 
     No. of Parallel Modules X Isc X 1.25  =  Charge Controller Capacity 
    ( Few manufacturers already have built in extra current capacity) 
 
2.3.7  Module mounts 
      While mounting the modules, following points should be considered for getting maximum 
output from the solar modules: 
 
 Modules should be oriented to face the Sun. 
 The Modules produce more power when cooler. 
 The mounting and color of the modules can sometimes be chosen to blend with the 
architecture. 
 Tracking the Sun increases the amount of power from an array 
 
2.3.8  Structure 
           Select type of structure  i.e  Ground Mount, Rooftop Mount, Pole Mount or Tracker. 
          A group of Modules mounted on single unit of structure and interconnected together is    
called PANEL. 
          Calculate Number of Structures by following formula 
 
Click for contents
Click for contents
