CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
12 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
 
        Conversion Efficiency  
         The ratio of the maximum power to the product of area and irradiance expressed as a 
percentage. 
 n   =   Maximum power   x 100% 
   
 
           Area x irradiance   
 
2.2    General & Technical requirements for Solar Photo Voltaic Module 
         Following are the general and technical requirements of solar photovoltaic module for use 
in Railway S&T installation for the correctness of its material, design and electrical 
characteristics as per IRS specification IRS:S 84-92  
 
2.2.1 General Requirements 
         The solar module for the purpose of this specification shall consist of the following three 
main components: 
 
(i) Toughened front glass. 
(ii) A suitable mounting frame. 
(iii)An assembly of suitably interconnected, silicon solar cells working on the principle of 
photovoltaic conversion of sunlight into electricity. 
 
The silicon wafers cut from the large crystal shall be polished and necessary chemical 
treatment shall be given to achieve requisite surface characteristics for optimum efficiency 
of individual cells. 
 
P-N junction on individual wafer shall be made by injecting impurity (phosphorous or any 
other suitable material) by diffusion process. 
 
         The solar cells required to form a module shall be connected in series/ parallel through 
tinned copper foils.  These shall be mounted behind a high transparency, toughened glass 
front surface.  Two thin transparent films of suitable plastic material, preferably (Ethylene 
Vinyl Acetate) shall be interposed between the solar cell layer and the front glass and the 
solar cell layer and the back plastic laminate. This assembly shall then be kept in a 
temperature controlled oven at a suitable temperature, so that the above assembly becomes 
a solid mass with the cells protected against corrosion, moisture, pollution and weathering. 
 
         The transparency of toughened glass used shall not be less than 91%.  A certificate to this 
effect shall be submitted by the supplier.  A copy of test results from a recognized test 
house or their own laboratory shall be submitted at the time of type approval. 
 
         The complete solar module shall be sealed in an Anodized Aluminium Frame with RTV 
silicon rubber compound filling around the edges to give further moisture barrier and shock 
resistance. 
 
Click for contents
Click for contents
