CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
2 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
Disadvantages 
 Initial cost is high 
 Dependent on sunlight 
 Additional cost for storage battery. 
 Climatic condition, location, latitude, longitude, altitude, tilt angle, ageing, dent, bird 
dropping, etc. affect the output. 
 It has no self-storage capacity. 
 Manufacturing is very complicated process. 
 To install solar panel large area is required. 
 
1.3   Utilization of Solar Power Supply System in the Indian Railways 
The efficient running and control of Railway traffic in the country is sometimes seriously 
hampered by the irregular grid supply (by State Electricity Board) resulting in traffic 
congestion and other operational equipment failures also. The alternate D.G. sets pose 
considerable problem as it has a high maintenance cost and necessitates the use of 
additional D.G. sets as stand by. Again diesel oil is prone to pilferage, and moreover 
transportation and storage costs are involved. It also causes atmospheric pollution. Hence 
by harnessing the abundantly available and non-polluting by nature solar energy source for 
power requirements came into action after decades of research and field experience. 
 
1.4   Application of Solar Powered System for Signalling & Telecommunications 
Almost all signalling and Telecommunication gears can be run by solar power. In Indian 
Railway, Signalling system is Solar powered in phased manner. Priorities are given to those 
locations where there is no conventional power or power transmission through cables is 
cost effective. Some example of application of solar power for signalling and 
telecommunication gears are given below: 
 
1. Semaphore signal lighting at night. 
2. Charging battery to power Signal lighting and Point Machines. 
3. Charging battery for Integrated Power Supply (IPS) system. 
4. Charging battery for Optic Fibre Cable hut. 
5. Solar powered Radio warning system/Gate Signal/HKT/TC. 
6. Solar powered RRI/PI/relay operation (internal and external circuits)/ALR. 
7. Charging secondary cells for Tokenless/Token block instruments. 
8. Lighting Outer/Warner Signals and Distant Signal with motor operation. 
9. Solar distillation plants. 
 
1.5  Advantages of Solar Powered System for Signalling 
        Along with the advantages mentioned earlier the following are the additional advantages 
w.r.t. Signalling: 
 
1. Totally Solid State design and highly desirable. 
2. Power supply cabling from station building to the signal unit or cabin not needed, since 
the unit is a self contained power sources. This saves cabling cost. 
3. Minimum maintenance, which can be easily done by low skilled worker. 
4. Long life of whole system and the system gives trouble free performance. 
Click for contents
