CAMTECH/S/PROJ/2013‐14/HB‐SP/2.0 
 
3 
Installation & Maintenance of Solar Panel                                                     November 2013 
 
5. System design suited to monsoon and low light condition thus ensuring failure free 
operation of the signalling gears throughout the year. 
 
1.6  Photo Voltaic effect 
Electricity can be generated directly from sunlight, by a process called photovoltaic effect, 
which is defined as the generation of an electromotive force as a result of the absorption of 
ionizing radiation. The photo voltaic effect can be observed in almost any junction of 
material that have different electrical characteristics, but the best performance to date has 
been from solar cells made of Silicon.  
 
 
 
Fig.1.1: Photo Voltaic effect 
 
1.7  Solar Cell: Construction & Working 
The basic building block of a photovoltaic system is the Solar Cell, a semiconductor device 
having a simple p-n junction and which when exposed to sunlight produces DC electricity. 
The solar cell is made up of “Semi-Conductor” materials that are processed to make the 
device photovoltaic. The solar cell is made of single crystal silicon, polycrystalline and 
amorphous Silicon with an area of a few sq. centimeters to 200 sq. centimeters and even 
more. A thin p type silicon wafer is taken through phosphorus diffusion process and by 
screen-printing technology electrodes are made. The P-N junction of the solar cell gives rise 
to diode characteristics. Hence a solar cell is a PN junction device on which front and back 
electrical contacts are screen-printed. A sketch of typical psuedo-square solar cell is shown 
in Fig.2 (a) & (b). The side, which has negative polarity, is taken as front side and that 
which has positive polarity is taken as backside. The front or Negative side is exposed to 
sunlight for conduction to take place. Two Tinned copper strips work as terminal leads for 
interconnection to other cells. For collection of charge from the cell and conduction to 
terminal leads on negative side, Silver Oxide lines are screen printed horizontally and these 
are joined to terminal leads at close spacing (refer Fig 2 a). These lines cover only 5% of the 
total area of the cell, so that these do not pose any hindrance to the exposure of Sunrays. The 
back or Positive side is not exposed to sunlight; hence Aluminium is coated on whole 
surface for better conductivity (refer Fig 2 b). Aluminium is coated instead of Silver Oxide 
as latter is expensive hence not economical. The operation of solar cells involves these 
major processes: 
 
Click for contents
Click for contents
