                                   PREFACE 
 
     On Indian Railways, Solar Panels have been installed at many stations in non-
RE area where grid power supply is not available round the clock or not available 
at all. To impart knowledge about solar panel to the railway supervisors and 
maintainers, CAMTECH had prepared a maintenance handbook on Solar Panel in 
the year 2006. The technology is changing rapidly in every field and over the years 
there have been changes in the field of solar power technology too. To acquaint the 
field personnel with latest information, the handbook was taken up for review. 
 
      The current version of the handbook covers revised information on solar panel, 
its installation, maintenance and troubleshooting and supersedes the earlier version. 
A new section covering ‘Designing a Solar Photovoltaic System’ is also being 
added to help field engineers in deciding the number of Solar panels and battery 
capacity.  
 
      We are sincerely thankful to Shri S. Bandopadhyay, Sr.D.S.T.E./Bhopal/WC 
Rly., his sectional supervisors and maintainers who have helped us in preparing 
this handbook. We are also sincerely thankful to Shri A.K.Harnal, Asstt. General 
Manager SP (Marketing) from M/s Central Electronics Ltd., Sahibabad who have 
provided the latest information on the subject and helped us in reviewing the 
handbook. 
 
     Since technological upgradation and learning is a continuous process, you may 
feel the need for some addition/modification in this handbook. If so, please give 
your comments on email address dirsntcamtech@gmail.com or write to us at 
Indian Railways Centre for Advanced Maintenance Technology, In front of 
Adityaz Hotel, Maharajpur, Gwalior (M.P.) 474005.   
 
 
 
 CAMTECH Gwalior                                                             D.K.M.Yadav 
 Date: 29.11.2013                                                           Jt .Director (S&T) 
                                        
Click for contents
Click for contents
